To do away with; annul.
A person who favors the abolition of any institution, especially negro slavery.
The act of abrogating; repeal by authority.
In an abrupt manner; without giving notice, or without the usual forms; suddenly.
The coordinate representing the position of a point along a line perpendicular to the y-axis in a plane Cartesian coordinate system.
The act or practice of refraining from indulging an appetite or desire, especially for alcoholic drink or sexual intercourse.
To increase the speed of.
A means of approaching, entering, exiting, communicating with, or making use of:  a store with easy access.  
Occurring unexpectedly, unintentionally, or by chance.
The act of accommodating or the state of being accommodated; adjustment.
To cause to conform or agree; bring into harmony.
In accordance; correspondingly.
To come to one as a gain, addition, or increment:  interest accruing in my savings account. 
To consent or comply passively or without protest. See Synonyms at assent.
Of or relating to a disease, condition, or characteristic that is not congenital but develops after birth.
The act of acquiring.
Judgment, as by a jury or judge, that a defendant is not guilty of a crime as charged.
A coal tar derivative, C13H9N, that has a strongly irritating odor and is used in the manufacture of dyes and synthetics.
An acrylic resin.
To set in motion; make active or more active.
To put into motion or action; activate:  electrical relays that actuate the elevator's movements. 
A procedure used in or adapted from Chinese medical practice in which specific body areas are pierced with fine needles for therapeutic purposes or to relieve pain or produce regional anesthesia.
Having a sharp point or tip.
Impervious to pleas, appeals, or reason; stubbornly unyielding. See Synonyms at inflexible.
The act or process of adding, especially the process of computing with sets of numbers so as to find their sum.
A substance added in small amounts to something else to improve, strengthen, or otherwise alter it.
Of, relating to, or composed of animal fat; fatty.
Neighboring; contiguous.
The act of adjudicating, of reaching a judgement.
Mild, kind, yet earnest reproof.
To take into one's family through legal means and raise as one's own child.
At, near, or on the kidneys.
In the manner of adulation; overly flattering.
Relating to or characteristic of an adversary; involving antagonistic elements: "the chasm between management and labor in this country, an often needlessly adversarial . . . atmosphere”  ( Steve Lohr). 
Acting or serving to oppose; antagonistic:  adverse criticism. 
Biology   Living or occurring only in the presence of oxygen:  aerobic bacteria. 
The design and construction of aircraft.
A gaseous suspension of fine solid or liquid particles.
A natural attraction, liking, or feeling of kinship.
To inflict grievous physical or mental suffering on.
A plentiful supply of material goods; wealth.
In a state of entanglement or conflict with.
A consequence, especially of a disaster or misfortune:  famine as an aftermath of drought. 
A list or program of things to be done or considered: "They share with them an agenda beyond the immediate goal of democratization of the electoral process”  ( Daniel Sneider). 
To make worse or more troublesome.
The act of collecting together (aggregating).
The act of collecting together (aggregating).
A physical or mental disorder, especially a mild illness.
A fermented alcoholic beverage containing malt and hops, similar to but heavier than beer.
A southwest Asian perennial herb (Medicago sativa) having compound leaves with three leaflets and clusters of usually blue-violet flowers. It is widely cultivated as a pasture and hay crop.
Plural form of alga.
A branch of mathematics in which symbols, usually letters of the alphabet, represent numbers or members of a specified set and are used to represent quantities and to express general relationships that hold for all members of the set.
To cause to become unfriendly or hostile; estrange:  alienate a friend; alienate potential supporters by taking extreme positions.  See Synonyms at estrange.
Of, relating to, or containing an alkali.
Loyalty or the obligation of loyalty, as to a nation, sovereign, or cause. See Synonyms at fidelity.
An abnormally high sensitivity to certain substances, such as pollens, foods, or microorganisms. Common indications of allergy may include sneezing, itching, and skin rashes.
To make (pain, for example) more bearable:  a drug that alleviates cold symptoms.  See Synonyms at relieve.
Either of two large reptiles, Alligator mississipiensis of the southeast United States or A. sinensis of China, having sharp teeth and powerful jaws. They differ from crocodiles in having a broader, shorter snout.
The act of allowing.
A poorhouse.
The choice between two mutually exclusive possibilities.
The height of a thing above a reference level, especially above sea level or above the earth's surface. See Synonyms at elevation.
A low female singing voice; a contralto.
Plural form of alumnus; indicates both males and females, or males only.
Any of various alloys of mercury with other metals, especially:
To gather for oneself, as for one's pleasure or profit:  amassed a fortune.  See Synonyms at gather.
A person who engages in an art, science, study, or athletic activity as a pastime rather than as a profession.
Doubtfulness or uncertainty as regards interpretation: "leading a life of alleged moral ambiguity”  ( Anatole Broyard). 
The coexistence of opposing attitudes or feelings, such as love and hate, toward a person, object, or idea.
Exhibiting or feeling ambivalence.
To change for the better; improve:  amended the earlier proposal so as to make it more comprehensive. 
Friendly and agreeable in disposition; good-natured and likable.
Partial or total loss of memory, usually resulting from shock, psychological disturbance, brain injury, or illness.
A colorless, volatile liquid, C9H13N, used as a central nervous system stimulant in the treatment of certain conditions, such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, depression, and narcolepsy, and abused illegally as a stimulant.
Of large or great size, amount, extent, or capacity:  an ample living room.  See Synonyms at spacious.
The representation of someone as existing or something as happening in other than chronological, proper, or historical order.
Without oxygen; especially of an environment or organism.
A medication that reduces or eliminates pain.
The bodily structure of a plant or an animal or of any of its parts.
A person from whom one is descended, especially if more remote than a grandparent; a forebear.
Of, characterized by, or full of anecdotes.
A pathological deficiency in the oxygen-carrying component of the blood, measured in unit volume concentrations of hemoglobin, red blood cell volume, or red blood cell number.
Relating to or resembling anesthesia.
Plural form of anesthetic.
To give life to; fill with life.
The annual payment of an allowance or income.
Having an unknown or unacknowledged name:  an anonymous author. 
Any of various mosquitoes of the genus Anopheles, which can carry the malaria parasite and transmit the disease to humans.
Hostility that results in active resistance, opposition, or contentiousness. See Synonyms at enmity.
Belonging to the period before a war, especially the American Civil War.
To be of an earlier date than; precede in time.
Placed before or in front.
A collection of literary pieces, such as poems, short stories, or plays.
Relating to anthropology.
Opposed to the aristocracy.
Plural form of antibiotic.
A Y-shaped protein on the surface of B cells that is secreted into the blood or lymph in response to an antigenic stimulus, such as a bacterium, virus, parasite, or transplanted organ, and that neutralizes the antigen by binding specifically to it; an immunoglobulin.
Lacking climax, disappointing or ironically insignificant following of impressive foreshadowing.
A remedy or other agent used to neutralize or counteract the effects of a poison.
A substance, often a liquid such as ethylene glycol or alcohol, mixed with another liquid to lower its freezing point.
A substance that when introduced into the body stimulates the production of an antibody. Antigens include toxins, bacteria, foreign blood cells, and the cells of transplanted organs.
A direct or diametrical opposite: "We just sit and listen to the fullness of the quiet, as an antipode to focused busyness”  ( Kathryn A. Knox). 
Counteracting or diminishing the symptoms of psychotic disorders, such as schizophrenia, paranoia, and bipolar disorder.
Ancient times, especially the times preceding the Middle Ages.
Direct contrast; opposition.
Any of various large, tailless Old World primates of the family Pongidae, including the chimpanzee, gorilla, gibbon, and orangutan.
Occurring without periodicity; irregular.
Having no interest in or association with politics.
A person who argues in defense or justification of something, such as a doctrine, policy, or institution.
One that prepares and sells drugs and other medicines; a pharmacist.
An appliance or device for a particular purpose:  an x-ray apparatus. 
Clothing, especially outer garments; attire.
A device or instrument designed to perform a specific function, especially an electrical device, such as a toaster, for household use. See Synonyms at tool.
A device or instrument designed to perform a specific function, especially an electrical device, such as a toaster, for household use. See Synonyms at tool.
That can be applied; relevant or appropriate:  a rule not applicable in all cases; added the applicable sales tax. 
To divide and assign according to a plan; allot: "The tendency persists to apportion blame as suits the circumstances”  ( Natalie Angier). 
To take into custody; arrest:  apprehended the murderer. 
One bound by legal agreement to work for another for a specific amount of time in return for instruction in a trade, art, or business.
An expression of warm approval; praise.
The act of appropriating.
Consisting of, relating to, or being in water:  an aquatic environment. 
Fit for cultivation, as by plowing.
Determined by chance, whim, or impulse, and not by necessity, reason, or principle:  stopped at the first motel we passed, an arbitrary choice. 
A person chosen to settle the issue between parties engaged in a dispute. See Synonyms at judge.
Known or understood by only a few:  arcane economic theories.  See Synonyms at mysterious.
Someone who is skilled, professes or practices archaeology.
A principal enemy.
Plural form of archive.
Expressing or characterized by warmth of feeling; passionate:  an ardent lover. 
A roughly bounded part of the space on a surface; a region:  a farming area; the New York area. 
Lacking moisture, especially having insufficient rainfall to support trees or woody plants:  an arid climate. 
An upper limb of the human body, connecting the hand and wrist to the shoulder.
To set out for display or use; place in an orderly arrangement:  arrayed the whole regiment on the parade ground. 
Anatomy   Any of the muscular elastic tubes that form a branching system and that carry blood away from the heart to the cells, tissues, and organs of the body.
An object produced or shaped by human craft, especially a tool, weapon, or ornament of archaeological or historical interest.
A skilled manual worker; a craftsperson.
To attribute to a specified cause, source, or origin: "Other people ascribe his exclusion from the canon to an unsubtle form of racism”  ( Daniel Pinchbeck).  See Synonyms at attribute.
An unfavorable or damaging remark; slander:  Don't cast aspersions on my honesty. 
Death due to lack of oxygen.
To have a great ambition or ultimate goal; desire strongly:  aspired to stardom. 
killing or murder for political reasons
To estimate the value of (property) for taxation.
Astronomy   Any of numerous small celestial bodies that revolve around the sun, with orbits lying chiefly between Mars and Jupiter and characteristic diameters between a few and several hundred kilometers. Also called minor planet, planetoid.
A chronic respiratory disease, often arising from allergies, that is characterized by sudden recurring attacks of labored breathing, chest constriction, and coughing.
Having or showing shrewdness and discernment, especially with respect to one's own concerns. See Synonyms at shrewd.
Into separate parts or pieces:  broken asunder. 
A person legally appointed by another to act as his or her agent in the transaction of business, specifically one qualified and licensed to act for plaintiffs and defendants in legal proceedings.
To relate to a particular cause or source; ascribe:  attributed their failure to a lack of preparation. 
A rubbing away or wearing down by friction.
A public sale in which property or items of merchandise are sold to the highest bidder.
An examination of records or financial accounts to check their accuracy.
An invisible breath, emanation, or radiation.
A luminous atmospheric phenomenon appearing as streamers or bands of light sometimes visible in the night sky in northern or southern regions of the earth. It is thought to be caused by charged particles from the sun entering the earth's magnetic field and stimulating molecules in the atmosphere.
Severe or stern in disposition or appearance; somber and grave:  the austere figure of a Puritan minister. 
Conforming to fact and therefore worthy of trust, reliance, or belief:  an authentic account by an eyewitness. 
The automatic operation or control of equipment, a process, or a system.
Not controlled by others or by outside forces; independent:  an autonomous judiciary; an autonomous division of a corporate conglomerate. 
Any of several plant hormones that regulate various functions, including cell elongation.
Mathematics   A number that typifies a set of numbers of which it is a function.
A fixed, intense dislike; repugnance:  formed an aversion to crowds. 
A painted cloth hung at the back of a stage set. Also called backcloth.
To stop short and refuse to go on:  The horse balked at the jump. 
A narrative poem, often of folk origin and intended to be sung, consisting of simple stanzas and usually having a refrain.
Of or relating to the study of the dynamics of projectiles.
A legally declared or recognized condition of insolvency of a person or organization.
A religious sacrament marked by the symbolic application of water to the head or immersion of the body into water and resulting in admission of the recipient into the community of Christians.
A relatively long, straight, rigid piece of solid material used as a fastener, support, barrier, or structural or mechanical member.
An agreement between parties fixing obligations that each promises to carry out.
A male singer or voice with a range higher than a bass and lower than a tenor.
The harsh sound uttered by a dog.
Of, relating to, or characteristic of a style in art and architecture developed in Europe from the early 17th to mid-18th century, emphasizing dramatic, often strained effect and typified by bold, curving forms, elaborate ornamentation, and overall balance of disparate parts.
A large cylindrical container, usually made of staves bound together with hoops, with a flat top and bottom of equal diameter.
The lowest or bottom part:  the base of a cliff; the base of a lamp. 
The craft or process of making baskets or objects woven like baskets.
An army unit typically consisting of a headquarters and two or more companies, batteries, or similar subunits.
Showing or producing exalted joy or blessedness:  a beatific smile. 
An authoritative command.
One that gives aid, especially financial aid.
One that receives a benefit:  I am the beneficiary of your generosity. 
A past tense and a past participle of bereave.
To attack from all sides.
To surround with hostile forces.
To present as a gift or an honor; confer:  bestowed high praise on the winners. 
To give aid or information to an enemy of; commit treason against:  betray one's country. 
the act of betraying
Any one of various liquids for drinking, usually excluding water.
See bicentennial.
To issue a command to; direct.
Having or formed of two sides; two-sided.
Using or able to use two languages, especially with equal or nearly equal fluency.
Characterized by or consisting of two parts or components; twofold.
The technique of using monitoring devices to furnish information regarding an autonomic bodily function, such as heart rate or blood pressure, in an attempt to gain some voluntary control over that function. It may be used clinically to treat certain conditions, such as hypertension and migraine headache.
The combined flora and fauna of a region.
Of, consisting of, or supported by members of two parties, especially two major political parties:  a bipartisan resolution. 
The habit of standing and walking on two feet; the state of being bipedal
Any of various deciduous trees or shrubs of the genus Betula, native to the Northern Hemisphere and having unisexual flowers in catkins, alternate, simple, toothed leaves, and bark that often peels in thin papery layers.
To cut or divide into two parts, especially two equal parts.
Strikingly unconventional and far-fetched in style or appearance; odd. See Synonyms at fantastic.
A cutoff of electrical power, especially as a result of a shortage, a mechanical failure, or overuse by consumers.
Characterized by a moderate, unperturbed, or tranquil quality, especially:
A very strong gust of wind or air.
Gloomy and somber: "Life in the Aran Islands has always been bleak and difficult”  ( John Millington Synge). 
To mar or impair by a flaw.
A soft, amorphous mass.
The isolation of a nation, area, city, or harbor by hostile ships or forces in order to prevent the entrance and exit of traffic and commerce.
A spot or a stain caused by a discoloring substance:  a blot of paint. 
Not clear, crisp, or focused; having fuzzy edges.
An area having a wet, spongy, acidic substrate composed chiefly of sphagnum moss and peat in which characteristic shrubs and herbs and sometimes trees usually grow.
A long narrow pillow or cushion.
the act of bombing, especially towns or cities
The state of one who is bound as a slave or serf.
The practice or profession of recording the accounts and transactions of a business.
To make a deep, resonant sound.
To raise or lift by pushing up from behind or below. See Synonyms at lift.
Of or relating to the north; northern.
A narrow or obstructed section, as of a highway or a pipeline.
To leap forward or upward; spring.
Giving freely and generously; liberal.
Liberality in giving.
A small cluster or arrangement of flowers.
A contest between antagonists; a match:  a wrestling bout. 
A shaded, leafy recess; an arbor.
A common reddish-brown earthworm (Eisenia foetida) often used as fish bait.
Marked by flagrant and insolent audacity. See Synonyms at shameless.
An act of overcoming or penetrating an obstacle or restriction.
The quality or state of being brief in duration.
An establishment for the manufacture of malt liquors, such as beer and ale.
Of, relating to, or resembling brine; salty.
A vegetable (Brassica oleracea var. italica) in the mustard family, closely related to the cauliflower and having dense clusters of numerous green flower buds.
A small booklet or pamphlet, often containing promotional material or product information.
The business of a broker.
Any of various alloys of copper and tin in various proportions, sometimes with traces of other metals.
To inspect something leisurely and casually:  browsed through the map collection for items of interest. 
Extremely ruthless or cruel.
Of or pertaining to buboes.
An itemized summary of estimated or intended expenditures for a given period along with proposals for financing them:  submitted the annual budget to Congress. 
A larva of several tortricid moths, especially the spruce budworm, that devours plant buds.
One that buffs, especially a piece of soft leather or cloth used to shine or polish.
A bugaboo.
A protruding part; an outward curve or swelling.
Any of various large, hairy, social bees of the genus Bombus that nest underground.
Slang   An adverse reaction to a hallucinogenic drug.
A group of things growing close together; a cluster or clump:  a bunch of grapes; grass growing in bunches. 
Having or marked by buoyancy:  a buoyant balloon; buoyant spirits. 
An official of a bureaucracy.
To put forth new buds, leaves, or greenery; sprout.
To enter and steal from (a building or other premises).
A hole or tunnel dug in the ground by a small animal, such as a rabbit or mole, for habitation or refuge.
A sculpture representing a person's head, shoulders, and upper chest.
To move or cause to move energetically and busily.
A structure, usually brick or stone, built against a wall for support or reinforcement.
A law or rule governing the internal affairs of an organization.
A small, roughly built house; a cottage.
A hiding place used especially for storing provisions.
Causing or involving calamity; disastrous.
A silvery, moderately hard metallic element that constitutes approximately 3 percent of the earth's crust and is a basic component of most animals and plants. It occurs naturally in limestone, gypsum, and fluorite, and its compounds are used to make plaster, quicklime, Portland cement, and metallurgic and electronic materials. Atomic number 20; atomic weight 40.08; melting point 842 to 848°C; boiling point 1,487°C; specific gravity 1.55; valence 2. See Table at element.
A leader of an Islamic polity, regarded as a successor of Muhammad and by tradition always male.
Of or pertaining to calligraphy.
Any of several approximately equal units of heat, each measured as the quantity of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 gram of water by 1°C from a standard initial temperature, especially from 3.98°C, 14.5°C, or 19.5°C, at 1 atmosphere pressure. Also called gram calorie, small calorie.
A series of military operations undertaken to achieve a large-scale objective during a war:  Grant's Vicksburg campaign secured the entire Mississippi for the Union. 
A farmer or farm worker in a Latin-American country.
A small finch (Serinus canaria) native to the Canary Islands that is greenish to yellow and has long been bred as a cage bird.
Relating to or affected with cancer.
An ecclesiastical law or code of laws established by a church council.
A covering, usually of cloth, suspended over a throne or bed or held aloft on poles above an eminent person or a sacred object.
A heavy, coarse, closely woven fabric of cotton, hemp, or flax, used for tents and sails.
The ability to receive, hold, or absorb.
Characterized by or subject to whim; impulsive and unpredictable. See Synonyms at arbitrary.
Marked by a disposition to find and point out trivial faults:  a captious scholar. 
To attract and hold by charm, beauty, or excellence. See Synonyms at charm.
The state or period of being imprisoned, confined, or enslaved.
To take captive, as by force or craft; seize.
Any of a group of organic compounds that includes sugars, starches, celluloses, and gums and serves as a major energy source in the diet of animals. These compounds are produced by photosynthetic plants and contain only carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, usually in the ratio 1:2:1.
A cancer-causing substance or agent.
Of, near, or relating to the heart:  cardiac arteries. 
Of, relating to, or involving both the heart and the lungs.
Of, relating to, or involving the heart and the blood vessels:  cardiovascular disease. 
The freight carried by a ship, an aircraft, or another vehicle.
A representation, especially pictorial or literary, in which the subject's distinctive features or peculiarities are deliberately exaggerated to produce a comic or grotesque effect.
Decay of a bone or tooth, especially dental caries.
A song of praise or joy, especially for Christmas.
Of, relating to, or near the carpus.
A combination of independent business organizations formed to regulate production, pricing, and marketing of goods by the members.
One who makes maps or charts.
A waterfall or a series of small waterfalls over steep rocks.
An accident, especially one involving serious injury or loss of life.
A list or itemized display, as of titles, course offerings, or articles for exhibition or sale, usually including descriptive information or illustrations.
A systematic list of names, books, pictures etc.
Chemistry   A substance, usually used in small amounts relative to the reactants, that modifies and increases the rate of a reaction without being consumed in the process.
A great, often sudden calamity.
A specifically defined division in a system of classification; a class.
To provide food or entertainment.
The wormlike larva of a butterfly or moth.
The principal church of a bishop's diocese, containing the episcopal throne.
A warning or caution: "A final caveat: Most experts feel that clients get unsatisfactory results when they don't specify clearly what they want”  ( Savvy). 
The roe of a large fish, especially sturgeon, that is salted, seasoned, and eaten as a delicacy or relish.
Any of several Old World evergreen coniferous trees of the genus Cedrus, having stiff needles on short shoots and large erect seed cones with broad deciduous scales.
A famous person.
Of or relating to the sky or the heavens:  Planets are celestial bodies. 
An expression of strong disapproval or harsh criticism.
An official, usually periodic enumeration of a population, often including the collection of related demographic information.
A point or place that is equally distant from the sides or outer boundaries of something; the middle:  the center of a stage. 
Moving or directed away from a center or axis.
Any of various hard, brittle, heat-resistant and corrosion-resistant materials made by shaping and then firing a nonmetallic mineral, such as clay, at a high temperature.
A grass such as wheat, oats, or corn, the starchy grains of which are used as food.
Of, appropriate to, or characterized by ceremony; formal or ritual.
A bringing or coming to an end; a ceasing:  a cessation of hostilities. 
Any of various light open carriages, often with a collapsible hood, especially a two-wheeled carriage drawn by one horse.
A cup or goblet.
A room in a house, especially a bedroom.
Any of various tropical Old World lizards of the family Chamaeleonidae, characterized by their ability to change color.
A short, simple series of syllables or words that are sung on or intoned to the same note or a limited range of notes.
To burn the surface of; scorch.
To impose a duty, responsibility, or obligation on:  charged him with the task of watching the young swimmers. 
Provision of help or relief to the poor; almsgiving.
A document issued by a sovereign, legislature, or other authority, creating a public or private corporation, such as a city, college, or bank, and defining its privileges and purposes.
Militant devotion to and glorification of one's country; fanatical patriotism.
An action or influence that stops motion or expression; a restraint:  Heavy rains were a check on the army's advance. 
A long-legged, swift-running wild cat (Acinonyx jubatus) of Africa and southwest Asia, having tawny, black-spotted fur and nonretractile claws. The cheetah, the fastest animal on land, can run for short distances at about 96 kilometers (60 miles) per hour.
A cook, especially the chief cook of a large kitchen staff.
The technique of using light and shade in pictorial representation.
A metal tool with a sharp beveled edge, used to cut and shape stone, wood, or metal.
Plural form of chlorofluorocarbon.
A white crystalline substance, C27H45OH, found in animal tissues and various foods, that is normally synthesized by the liver and is important as a constituent of cell membranes and a precursor to steroid hormones. Its level in the bloodstream can influence the pathogenesis of certain conditions, such as the development of atherosclerotic plaque and coronary artery disease.
Music   A combination of three or more pitches sounded simultaneously.
Any of numerous animals belonging to the phylum Chordata, having at some stage of development a dorsal nerve cord, a notochord, and gill slits and including all vertebrates and certain marine animals, such as the lancelets.
The art of creating and arranging dances or ballets.
A threadlike linear strand of DNA and associated proteins in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells that carries the genes and functions in the transmission of hereditary information.
Of long duration; continuing:  chronic money problems. 
An extended account in prose or verse of historical events, sometimes including legendary material, presented in chronological order and without authorial interpretation or comment.
The science that deals with the determination of dates and the sequence of events.
A vessel or device in which cream or milk is agitated to separate the oily globules from the caseous and serous parts, used to make butter.
A burned or partly burned substance, such as coal, that is not reduced to ashes but is incapable of further combustion.
Biology   Relating to or exhibiting approximately 24-hour periodicity.
A plane curve everywhere equidistant from a given fixed point, the center.
Movement in a circle or circuit, especially the movement of blood through bodily vessels as a result of the heart's pumping action.
The boundary line of a circle.
To draw a line around; encircle.
Heedful of circumstances and potential consequences; prudent.
To surround (an enemy, for example); enclose or entrap.
Of, relating to, or belonging to a city, a citizen, or citizenship; municipal or civil.
Of, relating to, or befitting a citizen or citizens:  civil duties. 
To demand, ask for, or take as one's own or one's due:  claim a reward; claim one's luggage at the airport carousel. 
Any of various usually burrowing marine and freshwater bivalve mollusks of the class Pelecypoda, including members of the genera Venus and Mya, many of which are edible.
A traditional social unit in the Scottish Highlands, consisting of a number of families claiming a common ancestor and following the same hereditary chieftain.
Kept or done in secret, often in order to conceal an illicit or improper purpose. See Synonyms at secret.
To make clear or easier to understand; elucidate:  clarified her intentions. 
Of or relating to clerks or office workers or their work.
Plural form of cliché / cliche.
The clients of a professional person or practice considered as a group.
A person who studies, professes or practices climatology.
Something cut off or out, especially an item clipped from a newspaper or magazine.
In the same direction as the rotating hands of a clock.
An obstruction or hindrance.
A cell, group of cells, or organism that is descended from and genetically identical to a single common ancestor, such as a bacterial colony whose members arose from a single original cell.
A cord, rope, or wire on which clothes may be hung to dry or air.
Lacking physical coordination, skill, or grace; awkward.
A group of the same or similar elements gathered or occurring closely together; a bunch: "She held out her hand, a small tight cluster of fingers”  ( Anne Tyler). 
To grow together; fuse.
An alliance, especially a temporary one, of people, factions, parties, or nations.
A cobblestone.
A colorless or white crystalline alkaloid, C17H21NO4, extracted from coca leaves, sometimes used in medicine as a local anesthetic especially for the eyes, nose, or throat and widely used as an illicit drug for its euphoric and stimulating effects.
A powder made from cacao seeds after they have been fermented, roasted, shelled, ground, and freed of most of their fat.
Music   The concluding passage of a movement or composition.
A systematically arranged and comprehensive collection of laws.
To reduce to a code:  codify laws. 
Of, characterized by, involving, or relating to cognition: "Thinking in terms of dualisms is common in our cognitive culture”  ( Key Reporter). 
Sticking together; cohering.
The right or process of making coins.
A salad of finely shredded raw cabbage and sometimes shredded carrots, dressed with mayonnaise or a vinaigrette.
To work together, especially in a joint intellectual effort.
Situated or running side by side; parallel.
To oppose in battle; fight against.
The act of combining or the state of being combined.
The process of burning.
A professional entertainer who tells jokes or performs various other comic acts.
A celestial body, observed only in that part of its orbit that is relatively close to the sun, having a head consisting of a solid nucleus surrounded by a nebulous coma up to 2.4 million kilometers (1.5 million miles) in diameter and an elongated curved vapor tail arising from the coma when sufficiently close to the sun. Comets are thought to consist chiefly of ammonia, methane, carbon dioxide, and water.
Of or relating to commerce:  a commercial loan; a commercial attaché. 
The act of granting certain powers or the authority to carry out a particular task or duty.
Having no remarkable features, characteristics, or traits; ordinary.
Closely and firmly united or packed together; dense:  compact clusters of flowers. 
the state of being compact
Having the qualities of a companion.
Capable of existing or performing in harmonious, agreeable, or congenial combination with another or others:  compatible family relationships. 
To offset; counterbalance.
The act of compensating or the state of being compensated.
To gather into a single book.
A feeling of contentment or self-satisfaction, especially when coupled with an unawareness of danger, trouble, or controversy.
Something that completes, makes up a whole, or brings to perfection.
Forming or serving as a complement; completing.
Consisting of interconnected or interwoven parts; composite.
The act of complying with a wish, request, or demand; acquiescence.
To act in accordance with another's command, request, rule, or wish:  The patient complied with the physician's orders. 
A constituent element, as of a system. See Synonyms at element.
To combine so as to form a whole; mix.
To take in the meaning, nature, or importance of; grasp. See Synonyms at apprehend.
A settlement of differences in which each side makes concessions.
Obligatory; required:  a compulsory examination. 
To keep from being seen, found, observed, or discovered; hide. See Synonyms at hide1.
To direct or draw toward a common center; focus.
To have to do with or relate to:  an article that concerns the plight of homeless people. 
Music   A performance given by one or more singers or instrumentalists or both.
A composition for an orchestra and one or more solo instruments, typically in three movements.
The act of conceding.
Of or relating to an actual, specific thing or instance; particular:  had the concrete evidence needed to convict. 
Happening at the same time as something else. See Synonyms at contemporary.
To reduce the volume or compass of.
Displaying a patronizingly superior attitude: "The independent investor's desire to play individual stocks may well worry some market veterans, but that smacks a little of Wall Street's usual condescending attitude toward small investors”  ( Tom Petruno). 
Either of two New World vultures, Vultur gryphus of the Andes or Gymnogyps californianus, a nearly extinct vulture of the mountains of California, having a bare head and neck and dull black plumage containing variable amounts of white. With a wingspan of about three meters (ten feet), they are the largest birds in the Western Hemisphere.
Mathematics   The surface generated by a straight line, the generator, passing through a fixed point, the vertex, and moving along a fixed curve, the directrix.
Arrangement of parts or elements.
The act of confining or the state of being confined.
To correspond in form or character; be similar.
To come face to face with, especially with defiance or hostility:  I wish to confront my accuser in a court of law. 
Having the same tastes, habits, or temperament; sympathetic.
The act of gathering into a heap or mass; accumulation.
To form or gather into a mass or whole.
The act of assembling.
Corresponding; congruous.
To cooperate secretly in an illegal or wrongful action; collude:  The dealers connived with customs officials to bring in narcotics. 
An opinion or position reached by a group as a whole: "Among political women . . . there is a clear consensus about the problems women candidates have traditionally faced”  ( Wendy Kaminer).  See Usage Note at redundancy.
Plural form of consortium.
An agreement to perform together an illegal, wrongful, or subversive act.
Astronomy   An arbitrary formation of stars perceived as a figure or design, especially one of 88 recognized groups named after characters from classical mythology and various common animals and objects.
The threat or use of force to prevent, restrict, or dictate the action or thought of others.
Of or relating to contagion.
One that contaminates.
To look at attentively and thoughtfully. See Synonyms at see1.
Belonging to the same period of time:  a fact documented by two contemporary sources. 
Manifesting or feeling contempt; scornful.
Given to contention; quarrelsome. See Synonyms at argumentative, belligerent.
The part of a text or statement that surrounds a particular word or passage and determines its meaning.
Sharing an edge or boundary; touching.
An event that may occur but that is not likely or intended; a possibility.
Liable to occur but not with certainty; possible: "All salaries are reckoned on contingent as well as on actual services”  ( Ralph Waldo Emerson). 
Music   The lowest female voice or voice part, intermediate in range between soprano and tenor.
To exercise authoritative or dominating influence over; direct. See Synonyms at conduct.
Gradual return to health and strength after illness.
The act of converting.
To change (something) into another form, substance, state, or product; transform:  convert water into ice. 
Law   The judgment of a jury or judge that a person is guilty of a crime as charged.
Having numerous overlapping coils or folds:  a convoluted seashell. 
One that is equal in importance, rank, or degree.
An aromatic annual Eurasian herb (Coriandrum sativum) in the parsley family, having parsleylike leaves and umbels of tiny white to pinkish flowers. It is cultivated for its edible fruits, leafy shoots, and roots.
A stone at the corner of a building uniting two intersecting walls; a quoin.
The stalk or stem of a corn plant.
Trite, dated, melodramatic, or mawkishly sentimental.
Of, relating to, or being the coronary arteries or coronary veins.
The condition of being excessively fat; obesity.
A narrow hallway, passageway, or gallery, often with rooms or apartments opening onto it.
To strengthen or support with other evidence; make more certain. See Synonyms at confirm.
Anatomy   The outer layer of an internal organ or body structure, as of the kidney or adrenal gland.
Of or relating to the regions of the universe distinct from the Earth.
An amount paid or required in payment for a purchase; a price.
In a direction opposite to the rotating hands of a clock.
To make a copy of, usually with the intent to defraud; forge:  counterfeits money. 
To act against with equal force; counteract.
A negotiable certificate attached to a bond that represents a sum of interest due.
A messenger, especially one on official diplomatic business.
Tending to avoid people and social situations; reserved.
A small wolflike carnivorous animal (Canis latrans) native to western North America and found in many other regions of the continent. Also called prairie wolf.
To break or snap apart.
Uncomfortably small or restricted:  cramped living quarters. 
So crude and unrefined as to be lacking in discrimination and sensibility.
A bowl-shaped depression at the mouth of a volcano or geyser.
Acceptance as true or valid; belief. See Synonyms at belief.
Belief or confidence in the truth of something. See Synonyms at belief.
A creed.
A usually ornamental tuft, ridge, or similar projection on the head of a bird or other animal.
The scientific study of crime, criminals, criminal behavior, and corrections.
Plural form of criterion.
A critical review or commentary, especially one dealing with works of art or literature.
Extremely significant or important:  a crucial problem. 
To crush together or press into wrinkles; rumple.
To chew with a noisy crackling sound.
Any of the military expeditions undertaken by European Christians in the 11th, 12th, and 13th centuries to recover the Holy Land from the Muslims.
An underground vault or chamber, especially one beneath a church that is used as a burial place.
cryptic
Mathematics   A regular solid having six congruent square faces.
Games   A long tapered rod with a leather tip used to strike the cue ball in billiards and pool.
To reach the highest point or degree; climax:  habitual antagonism that culminated in open hostility. 
The degree of one's blameworthiness in the commission of a crime or offence.
A religion or religious sect generally considered to be extremist or false, with its followers often living in an unconventional manner under the guidance of an authoritarian, charismatic leader.
The act of cultivating.
Difficult to handle because of weight or bulk. See Synonyms at heavy.
Excessive desire, especially for wealth; covetousness or avarice.
A concrete border or row of joined stones forming part of a gutter along the edge of a street.
A remedy that cures all diseases or evils; a panacea.
All the courses of study offered by an educational institution.
To cut short or reduce. See Synonyms at shorten.
To make or alter to individual or personal specifications:  customize a van. 
Mathematics   The surface generated by a straight line intersecting and moving along a closed plane curve, the directrix, while remaining parallel to a fixed straight line that is not on or parallel to the plane of the directrix.
Believing or showing the belief that people are motivated chiefly by base or selfish concerns; skeptical of the motives of others:  a cynical dismissal of the politician's promise to reform the campaign finance system. 
Any of a class of plant hormones that promote cell division and growth and delay the senescence of leaves.
The branch of biology that deals with the formation, structure, and function of cells.
The protoplasm outside the nucleus of a cell.
To mend (a garment, for example) by weaving thread or yarn across a gap or hole.
To remove ice, as from the wings of an airplane.
To lower in character, quality, or value; degrade. See Synonyms at adulterate, corrupt, degrade.
A certificate or voucher acknowledging a debt.
To sap the strength or energy of; enervate.
The scattered remains of something broken or destroyed; rubble or wreckage.
A first public appearance, as of a performer.
A polygon with ten angles and ten sides.
Biology   To break down into component parts; rot.
Characterized by conformity to recognized standards of propriety or morality.
A linear array of digits that represents a real number, every decimal place indicating a multiple of a negative power of 10. For example, the decimal 0.1 =  1/10 , 0.12 =  12/100 , 0.003 =  3/1000 . Also called decimal fraction.
To read or interpret (ambiguous, obscure, or illegible matter). See Synonyms at solve.
To grow or cause to grow gradually less or smaller, as in number, amount, or intensity.
To reach (a conclusion) by reasoning.
To take away (a quantity) from another; subtract.
Law   The party against which an action is brought.
Marked by or exhibiting deference.
Inadequacy or insufficiency:  a deficit in grain production. 
To spoil the natural form of; misshape:  a body that had been deformed by disease. 
To remove ice or frost from:  defrosted the windshield. 
Quick and skillful; adroit. See Synonyms at dexterous.
Having declined, as in function or nature, from a former or original state:  a degenerate form of an ancient folk art. 
Having a harmful effect; injurious:  the deleterious effects of smoking. 
Done with or marked by full consciousness of the nature and effects; intentional:  mistook the oversight for a deliberate insult. 
Pleasing to the senses, especially in a subtle way:  a delicate flavor; a delicate violin passage. 
To draw or trace the outline of; sketch out.
The fourth letter of the Greek alphabet. See Table at alphabet.
A great flood.
The act or process of deluding.
Death.
The disorganization or disarming of troops which have previously been mobilized or called into active service; the change from a war footing to a peace footing; the act of demobilizing.
Of or relating to demography.
The act or process of wrecking or destroying, especially destruction by explosives.
Capable of being demonstrated or proved:  demonstrable truths. 
To voice opposition; object:  demurred at the suggestion.  See Synonyms at object.
The act or process of denationalizing, of removing from government control.
To attack the character or reputation of; speak ill of; defame.
Mathematics   The expression written below the line in a common fraction that indicates the number of parts into which one whole is divided.
To mark; indicate:  a frown that denoted increasing impatience. 
The final resolution or clarification of a dramatic or narrative plot.
The type, number, and arrangement of a set of teeth.
Tending to denounce.
To go away; leave.
To represent in a picture or sculpture.
To decrease the fullness of; use up or empty out.
The act or process of depleting.
To position (troops) in readiness for combat, as along a front or line.
A decrease or loss in value, as because of age, wear, or market conditions.
To lower in spirits; deject.
To speak of or treat with contemptuous mirth. See Synonyms at ridicule.
Contemptuous or jeering laughter; ridicule.
Resulting from or employing derivation:  a derivative word; a derivative process. 
To obtain or receive from a source.
Disparaging; belittling:  a derogatory comment. 
To move from a higher to a lower place; come or go down.
The act or process of eliminating segregation.
The top of a desk.
To regard with contempt or scorn:  despised all cowards and flatterers. 
Separated; disconnected:  a detached part; a detached plug. 
The act or process of detecting; discovery:  detection of a crime; detection of radiation from a distant galaxy. 
A cleansing substance that acts similarly to soap but is made from chemical compounds rather than fats and lye.
The process of growing worse, or the state of having grown worse.
Tending to deter:  deterrent weapons. 
A person who belittles the worth of another person or cause.
Causing damage or harm; injurious.
To lay waste; destroy.
Any of several metabolic disorders marked by excessive discharge of urine and persistent thirst, especially one of the two types of diabetes mellitus.
Mathematics   Joining two nonadjacent vertices of a polygon.
A regional or social variety of a language distinguished by pronunciation, grammar, or vocabulary, especially a variety of speech differing from the standard literary language or speech pattern of the culture in which it exists:  Cockney is a dialect of English. 
Mathematics   A straight line segment passing through the center of a figure, especially of a circle or sphere, and terminating at the periphery.
A folded piece of absorbent material, such as paper or cloth, that is placed between a baby's legs and fastened at the waist to contain excretions.
An anticlinal fold in which a mobile core, such as salt or gypsum, has pierced through the more brittle overlying rock.
Division into two usually contradictory parts or opinions: "the dichotomy of the one and the many”  ( Louis Auchincloss). 
Intended to instruct.
A diesel engine.
The quality or condition of being unlike or dissimilar.
The process of making weaker or less concentrated.
To make smaller or less or to cause to appear so.
To have dinner.
Any of various extinct, often gigantic, carnivorous or herbivorous reptiles of the orders Saurischia and Ornithischia that were chiefly terrestrial and existed during the Mesozoic Era.
A compound with two oxygen atoms per molecule.
To plunge briefly into a liquid, as in order to wet, coat, or saturate.
An acute infectious disease caused by the bacillus Corynebacterium diphtheriae, characterized by the production of a systemic toxin and the formation of a false membrane on the lining of the mucous membrane of the throat and other respiratory passages, causing difficulty in breathing, high fever, and weakness. The toxin is particularly harmful to the tissues of the heart and central nervous system.
A document issued by an educational institution, such as a university, testifying that the recipient has earned a degree or has successfully completed a particular course of study.
An order or instruction, especially one issued by a central authority.
To divest of a weapon or weapons.
To disclaim knowledge of, responsibility for, or association with.
To perceive with the eyes or intellect; detect.
To relieve of a burden or of contents; unload.
To deduct or subtract from a cost or price.
Verbal expression in speech or writing.
Constituting a separate thing. See Synonyms at distinct.
Left to or regulated by one's own discretion or judgment.
The act of discriminating.
To disfranchise.
To modify the manner or appearance of in order to prevent recognition.
A lack of inclination; a mild aversion or reluctance.
To remove or force out from a position or dwelling previously occupied.
Causing gloom or depression; dreary:  dismal weather; took a dismal view of the economy. 
To take apart; disassemble; tear down.
To cut, tear, or pull off the limbs of.
A lack of order or regular arrangement; confusion.
To cause (a person, for example) to experience disorientation.
Insulting, ridiculing.
Fundamentally distinct or different in kind; entirely dissimilar: "This mixture of apparently disparate materials—scandal and spiritualism, current events and eternal recurrences—is not promising on the face of it”  ( Gary Wills). 
The condition or fact of being unequal, as in age, rank, or degree; difference: "narrow the economic disparities among regions and industries”  ( Courtenay Slater). 
Devoid of or unaffected by passion, emotion, or bias. See Synonyms at fair1.
To move or shift from the usual place or position, especially to force to leave a homeland:  millions of refugees who were displaced by the war. 
To place or set in a particular order; arrange.
The act of disseminating, or the state of being disseminated; diffusion for propagation and permanence; a scattering or spreading abroad, as of ideas, beliefs, etc.
One who dissents:  political dissenters. 
To drive away; disperse.
To subject (a substance) to distillation.
Readily distinguishable from all others; discrete:  on two distinct occasions. 
To twist out of a proper or natural relation of parts; misshape.
The act of distracting or the condition of being distracted.
The act of distributing or the condition of being distributed; apportionment.
An operatic prima donna.
The act of diverging.
Drawing apart from a common point; diverging.
Differing one from another.
To give variety to; vary:  diversify a menu. 
To strip, as of clothes.
The sale or other disposal of some kind of asset.
Mathematics   A quantity to be divided.
Mathematics   A quantity to be divided.
Having the nature of or being a deity.
Capable of being divided, especially with no remainder:  15 is divisible by 3 and 5. 
The act or process of dividing.
The act or process of dividing.
The quantity by which another quantity, the dividend, is to be divided.
To make known (something private or secret).
Ready and willing to be taught; teachable.
A principle or body of principles presented for acceptance or belief, as by a religious, political, scientific, or philosophic group; dogma.
A doctrine or a corpus of doctrines relating to matters such as morality and faith, set forth in an authoritative manner by a church.
A tree (Cornus florida) of eastern North America, having small greenish flowers surrounded by four large, showy white or pink bracts that resemble petals.
One that contributes something, such as money, to a cause or fund.
Inevitable destruction or ruin.
A monoamine neurotransmitter formed in the brain by the decarboxylation of dopa and essential to the normal functioning of the central nervous system. A reduction in its concentration within the brain is associated with Parkinson's disease.
Informal   A narcotic, especially an addictive narcotic.
A specified quantity of a therapeutic agent, such as a drug or medicine, prescribed to be taken at one time or at stated intervals.
Certainly:  The wind was doubtless a factor. 
Present participle of downzone.
Of a dull grayish to yellowish brown.
To draw off (a liquid) by a gradual process:  drained water from the sink. 
Severe or radical in nature; extreme:  the drastic measure of amputating the entire leg; drastic social change brought about by the French Revolution. 
To rain gently in fine, mistlike drops.
One who quits school.
Fraught with uncertainty or doubt; undecided.
Easily drawn into wire or hammered thin:  ductile metals. 
An imitation of a real or original object, intended to be used as a practical substitute.
To release or throw down in a large mass.
To release or throw down in a large mass.
Identically copied from an original.
Permanence by virtue of the power to resist stress or force.
A place to live in; an abode.
To become gradually less until little remains.
The branch of mechanics that is concerned with the effects of forces on the motion of a body or system of bodies, especially of forces that do not originate within the system itself. Also called kinetics.
Abnormal or impaired functioning, especially of a bodily system or social group.
An impairment in the ability to control movements, characterized by spasmodic or repetitive motions or lack of coordination.
A formation of troops in which each unit is positioned successively to the left or right of the rear unit to form an oblique or steplike line.
The science of the relationships between organisms and their environments. Also called bionomics.
Of or relating to the production, development, and management of material wealth, as of a country, household, or business enterprise.
Prudent and thrifty in management; not wasteful or extravagant. See Synonyms at sparing.
Careful, thrifty management of resources, such as money, materials, or labor:  learned to practice economy in making out the household budget. 
An ecological community together with its environment, functioning as a unit.
A thin, sharpened side, as of the blade of a cutting instrument.
A crude figure or dummy representing a hated person or group.
Flowing out or forth.
The political doctrine that holds that all people in a society should have equal rights from birth.
A drink consisting of milk or cream, sugar, and eggs beaten together and often mixed with an alcoholic liquor such as rum or brandy.
Conspicuously bad or offensive. See Synonyms at flagrant.
Planned or executed with painstaking attention to numerous parts or details.
Of or relating to a selection by vote.
A body of qualified voters.
A stable subatomic particle in the lepton family having a rest mass of 9.1066 × 10-28 grams and a unit negative electric charge of approximately 1.602 × 10-19 coulombs. See Table at subatomic particle.
To move (something) to a higher place or position from a lower one; lift.
To bring or draw out (something latent); educe.
Qualified or entitled to be chosen:  eligible to run for office; eligible for retirement. 
To get rid of; remove:  an effort to eliminate homelessness; eliminated his enemies. 
A group or class of persons or a member of such a group or class, enjoying superior intellectual, social, or economic status: "In addition to notions of social equality there was much emphasis on the role of elites and of heroes within them”  ( Times Literary Supplement). 
In a shape reminding of an ellipse; oval.
To make or grow longer.
The act of elongating or the condition of being elongated.
Characterized by persuasive, powerful discourse:  an eloquent speaker; an eloquent sermon. 
To evade or escape from, as by daring, cleverness, or skill:  The suspect continues to elude the police. 
Tending to elude capture, perception, comprehension, or memory: "an invisible cabal of conspirators, each more elusive than the archterrorist [himself]”  ( David Kline). 
To come or send forth, as from a source:  light that emanated from a lamp; a stove that emanated a steady heat.  See Synonyms at stem1.
The act or an instance of emancipating.
To treat (a corpse) with preservatives in order to prevent decay.
To cause to board a vessel or aircraft:  stopped to embark passengers. 
To make beautiful, as by ornamentation; decorate.
To give a bodily form to; incarnate.
To clasp or hold close with the arms, usually as an expression of affection.
To ornament with needlework:  embroider a pillow cover. 
An organism in its early stages of development, especially before it has reached a distinctively recognizable form.
A brilliant green to grass-green transparent variety of beryl, used as a gemstone.
The act or an instance of emitting.
Relying on or derived from observation or experiment:  empirical results that supported the hypothesis. 
To strive to equal or excel, especially through imitation:  an older pupil whose accomplishments and style I emulated. 
To encase in or as if in a capsule.
Inflammation of the brain.
To put (a message, for example) into code.
To form a circle or ring around; surround. See Synonyms at surround.
A meeting, especially one that is unplanned, unexpected, or brief:  a chance encounter in the park. 
To take another's possessions or rights gradually or stealthily:  encroach on a neighbor's land. 
A conscientious or concerted effort toward an end; an earnest attempt.
Prevalent in or peculiar to a particular locality, region, or people:  diseases endemic to the tropics.  See Synonyms at native.
Any of a group of peptide hormones that bind to opiate receptors and are found mainly in the brain. Endorphins reduce the sensation of pain and affect emotions.
To write one's signature on the back of (a check, for example) as evidence of the legal transfer of its ownership, especially in return for the cash or credit indicated on its face.
The act of endorsing:  The athlete was highly paid to do endorsements of products. 
Chemistry   Characterized by or causing the absorption of heat; endoergic.
The act of endowing.
Act of enervating; debilitation.
To bring into existence; give rise to: "Every cloud engenders not a storm”  ( Shakespeare). 
To carve, cut, or etch into a material:  engraved the champion's name on the trophy. 
To swallow up or overwhelm by or as if by overflowing and enclosing:  The spring tide engulfed the beach houses. 
To make greater, as in value, beauty, or effectiveness; augment.
To engage (persons or a person) for service in the armed forces.
Very great in size, extent, number, or degree.
To make rich or richer.
To make into or as if into a slave.
To follow as a consequence or result. See Synonyms at follow.
To have, impose, or require as a necessary accompaniment or consequence:  The investment entailed a high risk. The proposition X is a rose entails the proposition X is a flower because all roses are flowers. 
An undertaking, especially one of some scope, complication, and risk.
To attract by arousing hope or desire; lure:  The promise of higher pay enticed me into the new job.  See Synonyms at lure.
Something that exists as a particular and discrete unit:  Persons and corporations are equivalent entities under the law. 
One that enters, especially one that enters a competition.
An alternative spelling of entrée.
A person who organizes, operates, and assumes the risk for a business venture.
The act of enumerating, making separate mention, or recounting.
A flat paper container, especially for a letter, usually having a gummed flap.
Feeling, expressing, or characterized by envy: "At times he regarded the wounded soldiers in an envious way.... He wished that he, too, had a wound, a red badge of courage”  ( Stephen Crane).  See Synonyms at jealous.
To picture in the mind; imagine.
Any of numerous proteins or conjugated proteins produced by living organisms and functioning as biochemical catalysts.
An extended narrative poem in elevated or dignified language, celebrating the feats of a legendary or traditional hero.
The point of the earth's surface directly above the focus of an earthquake.
Spreading rapidly and extensively by infection and affecting many individuals in an area or a population at the same time:  an epidemic outbreak of influenza. 
An incident or event that is part of a progression or a larger sequence: "South Africa may remain one of history's most tragic episodes”  ( Bayard Rustin). 
Of or characteristic of an epoch.
A period of time as reckoned from a specific date serving as the basis of its chronological system.
To tear up by the roots.
Having no fixed or regular course; wandering.
Being an imitation or a substitute, usually an inferior one; artificial:  ersatz coffee made mostly of chicory.  See Synonyms at artificial.
Deep, extensive learning. See Synonyms at knowledge.
To avoid; shun. See Synonyms at escape.
The act or practice of spying or of using spies to obtain secret information, as about another government or a business competitor.
To take in marriage; marry.
To make hostile, unsympathetic, or indifferent; alienate.
Being without beginning or end; existing outside of time. See Synonyms at infinite.
Ethnic character, background, or affiliation.
Of or pertaining to ethnocentrism.
relating to ethnography
One who practices ethnology.
The scientific study of music, especially traditional or non-Western music, as an aspect of culture.
A colorless flammable gas, C2H4, derived from natural gas and petroleum and used as a source of many organic compounds, in welding and cutting metals, to color citrus fruits, and as an anesthetic. Also called ethene.
The origin and historical development of a linguistic form as shown by determining its basic elements, earliest known use, and changes in form and meaning, tracing its transmission from one language to another, identifying its cognates in other languages, and reconstructing its ancestral form where possible.
Having complex cells in which the genetic material is organized into membrane-bound nuclei.
A feeling of great happiness or well-being.
The act of evacuating or the condition of being evacuated.
To convert or change into a vapor.
To put out (a tenant, for example) by legal process; expel.
To increase the severity, violence, or bitterness of; aggravate:  a speech that exacerbated racial tensions; a heavy rainfall that exacerbated the flood problems. 
To represent as greater than is actually the case; overstate:  exaggerate the size of the enemy force; exaggerated his own role in the episode. 
To make a hole in; hollow out:  excavate an ore-rich hillside. 
A passage or segment taken from a longer work, such as a literary or musical composition, a document, or a film.
An internal tax imposed on the production, sale, or consumption of a commodity or the use of a service within a country:  excises on tobacco, liquor, and long-distance telephone calls. 
Acting to exclude something
To separate and discharge (waste matter) from the blood, tissues, or organs.
To inflict severe pain on; torture.
A usually short journey made for pleasure; an outing.
One who executes, especially one who puts a condemned person to death.
To free from an obligation, a duty, or a liability to which others are subject:  exempting the disabled from military service. 
Treating all parts or aspects without omission; thorough:  an exhaustive study. 
To urge by strong, often stirring argument, admonition, advice, or appeal:  exhorted the troops to hold the line. 
The state or quality of requiring much effort or immediate action.
Enforced removal from one's native country.
A departure of a large number of people.
An act of disburdening, discharging, or freeing morally from a charge or imputation
From another part of the world; foreign:  exotic tropical plants in a greenhouse.  See Synonyms at foreign.
To send into exile. See Synonyms at banish.
Appropriate to a purpose.
To speed up the progress of; accelerate.
A journey undertaken by a group of people with a definite objective:  an expedition against the enemy stronghold; a scientific expedition to the South Pole. 
Expert advice or opinion.
Fully and clearly expressed; leaving nothing implied.
To give a detailed statement of; set forth:  expounded the intricacies of the new tax law. 
In an express or a definite manner; explicitly:  I expressly ordered the visitor to leave. 
The act of expelling or the state of being expelled.
Characterized by intricate and beautiful design or execution:  an exquisite chalice. 
Outer; external:  the exterior door. 
To get rid of by destroying completely; extirpate. See Synonyms at abolish.
Relating to, existing on, or connected with the outside or an outer part; exterior.
To put out (a fire, for example); quench.
To give up or deliver (a fugitive, for example) to the legal jurisdiction of another government or authority.
Not constituting a vital element or part.
A calculation of an estimate of the value of some function outside the range of known values.
Originating, located, or occurring outside Earth or its atmosphere:  intelligent extraterrestrial life. 
To release from an entanglement or difficulty; disengage.
Not forming an essential or inherent part of a thing; extraneous.
The act of fabricating, framing, or constructing; construction; manufacture
The face of a building, especially the front.
A group of persons forming a cohesive, usually contentious minority within a larger group.
One that actively contributes to an accomplishment, result, or process: "Surprise is the greatest factor in war”  ( Tom Clancy).  See Synonyms at element.
A fashion that is taken up with great enthusiasm for a brief period of time; a craze.
To lose brightness, loudness, or brilliance gradually; dim:  The lights and music faded as we set sail from the harbor. 
Having a false or misleading appearance; fraudulent.
A false notion.
The slow descent of minute particles of debris in the atmosphere following an explosion, especially the descent of radioactive debris after a nuclear explosion.
Plowed but left unseeded during a growing season:  fallow farmland. 
To be unsteady in purpose or action, as from loss of courage or confidence; waver. See Synonyms at hesitate.
A drastic, wide-reaching food shortage.
A person marked or motivated by an extreme, unreasoning enthusiasm, as for a cause.
Music   A loud flourish of brass instruments, especially trumpets.
Having a wide range, influence, or effect:  the far-reaching implications of a major new epidemic. 
A light dramatic work in which highly improbable plot situations, exaggerated characters, and often slapstick elements are used for humorous effect.
To get along:  How are you faring with your project? 
Causing or capable of causing death.
A death resulting from an accident or a disaster:  highway fatalities. 
A character weakness, especially a minor one.
Animals, especially the animals of a particular region or period, considered as a group.
A fava bean
A notable act or deed, especially an act of courage; an exploit.
The quality or power of producing abundantly; fruitfulness or fertility.
Lacking strength; weak.
Of or belonging to the family Felidae, which includes the lions, tigers, jaguars, and wild and domestic cats; felid.
A person whose beliefs and behavior are based on feminism.
A weasellike, usually albino mammal (Mustela putorius furo) related to the polecat and often trained to hunt rats or rabbits.
Having or showing great emotion or zeal; ardent:  fervent protests; a fervent admirer. 
Of, relating to, characteristic of, or being a fetus.
Of, relating to, or characteristic of feudalism.
Characterized by erratic changeableness or instability, especially with regard to affections or attachments; capricious.
An imaginative creation or a pretense that does not represent actuality but has been invented.
Of, relating to, or characterized by fiction; imaginary.
Nautical   A square bar used as a support for a topmast.
Having a savage and violent nature; ferocious. See Synonyms at cruel.
The use of obstructionist tactics, especially prolonged speechmaking, for the purpose of delaying legislative action.
The concluding part, especially of a musical composition.
Of or relating to government expenditures, revenues, and debt:  a fiscal policy of incurring budget deficits to stimulate a weak economy. 
A long, narrow, deep inlet of the sea between steep slopes.
Having a flaw
A tiny mark or spot:  flecks of mica in the rock. 
A young bird that has recently acquired its flight feathers.
Marked by disrespectful levity or casualness; pert.
Plants considered as a group, especially the plants of a particular country, region, or time.
Flushed with rosy color; ruddy.
A motion like that of waves; a moving in this and that direction.
Of or relating to fluorescence.
A personal enemy.
Anatomy   A small bodily cavity or sac.
A lack of good sense, understanding, or foresight.
Food for domestic animals; fodder.
A person from whom one is descended; an ancestor. See Synonyms at ancestor.
To estimate or calculate in advance, especially to predict (weather conditions) by analysis of meteorological data. See Synonyms at predict.
To deprive (a mortgagor) of the right to redeem mortgaged property, as when payments have not been made.
Located away from one's native country:  on business in a foreign city. 
To see or know beforehand:  foresaw the rapid increase in unemployment. 
To shorten the lines of (an object) in a drawing or other representation so as to produce an illusion of projection or extension in space.
To delay, hinder, or prevent by taking precautionary measures beforehand. See Synonyms at prevent.
A furnace or hearth where metals are heated or wrought; a smithy.
A colorless gaseous compound, HCHO, the simplest aldehyde, used for manufacturing melamine and phenolic resins, fertilizers, dyes, and embalming fluids and in aqueous solution as a preservative and disinfectant.
Arousing fear, dread, or alarm:  the formidable prospect of major surgery. 
About to appear or take place; approaching:  the forthcoming elections. 
At once; immediately.
Strength of mind that allows one to endure pain or adversity with courage.
A fortified place, especially a large, permanent military stronghold that often includes a town.
To bring up; nurture:  bear and foster offspring.  See Synonyms at nurture.
Offensive to the senses; revolting.
Mathematics   An expression that indicates the quotient of two quantities, such as  1/3 .
The act or process of breaking.
Easily broken, damaged, or destroyed; frail.
A small part broken off or detached.
The state or quality of having a pleasant odor.
To build by putting together the structural parts of; construct:  frame a house. 
Of or relating to brothers:  a close fraternal tie. 
Engaging in fraud; deceitful.
Standing or operating independently of anything else:  a freestanding bell tower; a freestanding maternity clinic. 
The art of painting on fresh, moist plaster with pigments dissolved in water.
Inclined to be vexed or troubled; peevish.
Relating to or being in accordance with the psychoanalytic theories of Sigmund Freud.
Unworthy of serious attention; trivial:  a frivolous novel. 
The forward part or surface, as of a building.
Practicing or marked by economy, as in the expenditure of money or the use of material resources. See Synonyms at sparing.
To prevent from accomplishing a purpose or fulfilling a desire; thwart:  A persistent wind frustrated my attempt to rake the lawn. 
Vapor, gas, or smoke, especially if irritating, harmful, or strong.
A plural of fungus.
A conical utensil having a small hole or narrow tube at the apex and used to channel the flow of a substance, as into a small-mouthed container.
An enclosure in which energy in a nonthermal form is converted to heat, especially such an enclosure in which heat is generated by the combustion of a suitable fuel.
The act or procedure of liquefying or melting by the application of heat.
Having no useful result.
Any of numerous large-scale aggregates of stars, gas, and dust that constitute the universe, containing an average of 100 billion (1011) solar masses and ranging in diameter from 1,500 to 300,000 light-years. Also called nebula.
A standard or scale of measurement.
A toothed machine part, such as a wheel or cylinder, that meshes with another toothed part to transmit motion or to change speed or direction.
Plural of goose.
A colloid in which the disperse phase has combined with the dispersion medium to produce a semisolid material, such as a jelly.
Grammar   A grammatical category used in the classification of nouns, pronouns, adjectives, and, in some languages, verbs that may be arbitrary or based on characteristics such as sex or animacy and that determines agreement with or selection of modifiers, referents, or grammatical forms.
Of or relating to genetics or genes.
genetic
Actually possessing the alleged or apparent attribute or character:  genuine leather. 
Any of various moths of the family Geometridae, having caterpillars commonly known as measuring worms that move by looping the body in alternate contractions and expansions.
Any of several plant hormones, such as gibberellic acid, used to promote stem elongation.
Inflammation of the gums, characterized by redness and swelling.
A belt or sash worn around the waist.
A huge mass of ice slowly flowing over a land mass, formed from compacted snow in an area where snow accumulation exceeds melting and sublimation.
A cell, a group of cells, or an organ that produces a secretion for use elsewhere in the body or in a body cavity or for elimination from the body.
To gather grain left behind by reapers.
To fill beyond capacity, especially with food; satiate.
A syrupy, sweet, colorless or yellowish liquid, C3H8O3, obtained from fats and oils as a byproduct of saponification and used as a solvent, an antifreeze, a plasticizer, and a sweetener and in the manufacture of dynamite, cosmetics, liquid soaps, inks, and lubricants.
gross national product
The largest of the anthropoid apes (Gorilla gorilla) native to the forests of equatorial Africa, having a stocky body and coarse, dark brown or black hair.
A connoisseur of fine food and drink.
A rate of inclination; a slope.
Advancing or progressing by regular or continuous degrees:  gradual erosion; a gradual slope. 
overly wordy, pompous, flowery, or elaborate.
The state of being grandiose (pompous or pretentious).
Composed or appearing to be composed of granules or grains.
The area beside a grave.
To move in response to the force of gravity.
To feed on growing grasses and herbage.
Seeking and enjoying the company of others; sociable. See Synonyms at social.
An actual or supposed circumstance regarded as just cause for complaint.
Unrelenting; rigid.
A tight hold; a firm grasp:  a drowning swimmer now safely in the grip of a lifeguard. 
The solid surface of the earth.
Causing horror and repugnance; frightful and shocking:  a gruesome murder.  See Synonyms at ghastly.
Easily deceived or duped.
A person who is trained and skilled in gymnastics, especially one who engages in competition.
A physician specializing in diseases of the female reproductive system.
The act of gyrating.
A haberdasher's shop.
The area or environment where an organism or ecological community normally lives or occurs:  a marine habitat. 
The act of inhabiting or the state of being inhabited.
Any of a class of subatomic particles that are composed of quarks and take part in the strong interaction. See Table at subatomic particle.
Precipitation in the form of spherical or irregular pellets of ice larger than 5 millimeters (0.2 inches) in diameter.
A mark indicating quality or excellence.
To prevent the free movement, action, or progress of.
A small Eurasian rodent of the subfamily Cricetinae, especially Mesocricetus auratus, having large cheek pouches and a short tail and often kept as a pet or used in laboratory research.
Sports &amp; Games   A race or contest in which contestants are given advantages or compensations to equalize the chances of winning.
Being in robust and sturdy good health. See Synonyms at healthy.
The gear or tackle, other than a yoke, with which a draft animal pulls a vehicle or implement.
An automobile having a sloping back with a hinged rear door that opens upward.
A harbor or anchorage; a port.
Widespread destruction; devastation.
Marked by danger; perilous.
Any of several small insectivorous mammals of the family Erinaceidae of Europe, Africa, and Asia, having the back covered with dense erectile spines and characteristically rolling into a ball for protection.
someone devoted to hedonism
Of considerable weight; heavy.
The predominant influence, as of a state, region, or group, over another or others.
The distance from the base of something to the top.
An aircraft that derives its lift from blades that rotate about an approximately vertical central axis.
A colorless, odorless inert gaseous element occurring in natural gas and with radioactive ores. It is used as a component of artificial atmospheres and laser media, as a refrigerant, as a lifting gas for balloons, and as a superfluid in cryogenic research. Atomic number 2; atomic weight 4.0026; boiling point -268.9°C; density at 0°C 0.1785 gram per liter. See Table at element.
An edge or border on a piece of cloth, especially a finished edge, as for a garment or curtain, made by folding an edge under and stitching it down.
The iron-containing respiratory pigment in red blood cells of vertebrates, consisting of about 6 percent heme and 94 percent globin.
Inflammation of the liver, caused by infectious or toxic agents and characterized by jaundice, fever, liver enlargement, and abdominal pain.
A chemical substance used to destroy or inhibit the growth of plants, especially weeds.
Law   Descending from an ancestor to a legal heir; passing down by inheritance.
Of or relating to heresy or heretics.
Property that is or can be inherited; an inheritance.
Any of various fishes of the family Clupeidae, especially a commercially important food fish (Clupea harengus) of Atlantic and Pacific waters.
The quality or state of being heterogeneous.
A polygon having six sides.
A body of persons having authority.
An area or a spot in a drawing, painting, or photograph that is strongly illuminated.
To be or get in the way of.
The land directly adjacent to and inland from a coast.
Until this time:  The weather, which had hitherto been sunny and mild, suddenly turned cold. 
Ice hockey.
Of or relating to holism.
The killing of one person by another.
A primate of the family Hominidae, of which Homo sapiens is the only extant species.
Of the same or similar nature or kind: "a tight-knit, homogeneous society”  ( James Fallows). 
A fine-grained whetstone for giving a keen edge to a cutting tool.
A substance, usually a peptide or steroid, produced by one tissue and conveyed by the bloodstream to another to effect physiological activity, such as growth or metabolism.
Hideous; dreadful: "Horrendous explosions shook the whole city”  ( Howard Kaplan). 
Disposed to treat guests with warmth and generosity.
The state of being hostile; antagonism or enmity. See Synonyms at enmity.
A domestic unit consisting of the members of a family who live together along with nonrelatives such as servants.
The property of colors by which they can be perceived as ranging from red through yellow, green, and blue, as determined by the dominant wavelength of the light. See Table at color.
To emit a continuous low droning sound like that of the speech sound (m) when prolonged.
One who is devoted to the promotion of human welfare and the advancement of social reforms; a philanthropist.
Any of numerous organic compounds, such as benzene and methane, that contain only carbon and hydrogen.
A colorless, highly flammable gaseous element, the lightest of all gases and the most abundant element in the universe, used in the production of synthetic ammonia and methanol, in petroleum refining, in the hydrogenation of organic materials, as a reducing atmosphere, in oxyhydrogen torches, and in rocket fuels. Atomic number 1; atomic weight 1.00794; melting point -259.14°C; boiling point -252.8°C; density at 0°C 0.08987 gram per liter; valence 1. See Table at element.
A figure of speech in which exaggeration is used for emphasis or effect, as in I could sleep for a year or This book weighs a ton.
Highly or excessively sensitive.
Arterial disease in which chronic high blood pressure is the primary symptom.
A person who uses hypnotism to induce hypnosis in someone, either for entertainment or therapy.
The side of a right triangle opposite the right angle.
The part of the brain that lies below the thalamus, forming the major portion of the ventral region of the diencephalon and functioning to regulate bodily temperature, certain metabolic processes, and other autonomic activities.
A tentative explanation for an observation, phenomenon, or scientific problem that can be tested by further investigation.
Surgical removal of part or all of the uterus.
A nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medication, C13H18O2, used especially in the treatment of arthritis and commonly taken for its analgesic and antipyretic properties.
Pictorial illustration of a subject.
Being the same:  another orator who used the senator's identical words. 
To establish the identity of.
Pertaining to an ideograph or ideography.
An invented form of dialect, language, or speech used by children, typically twins, and intelligible only to its speakers.
A structural or behavioral characteristic peculiar to an individual or group.
Not employed or busy:  idle carpenters.  See Synonyms at inactive.
The raising of a substance to its ignition point, as by electric current, friction, or mechanical shock.
Any of various large tropical American lizards of the family Iguanidae, often having spiny projections along the back.
Unable to read and write.
To provide or brighten with light.
Illusory; pertaining to an illusion, or of the nature of an illusion.
Produced by, based on, or having the nature of an illusion; deceptive: "Secret activities offer presidents the alluring but often illusory promise that they can achieve foreign policy goals without the bothersome debate and open decision that are staples of democracy”  ( Tom Wicker). 
Of no importance or relevance; inconsequential or irrelevant.
Occurring at once; instant:  gave me an immediate response. 
About to occur; impending:  in imminent danger. 
Contrary to established moral principles.
Not subject to an obligation imposed on others; exempt:  immune from taxation; immune from criminal prosecution. 
Of, or relating to immunology.
Not subject or susceptible to change.
The striking of one body against another; collision. See Synonyms at collision.
To grant a share of; bestow:  impart a subtle flavor; impart some advice. 
The quality of being impartial; fairness.
A road or passage having no exit; a cul-de-sac.
To retard or obstruct the progress of. See Synonyms at hinder1.
Something that impedes; a hindrance or obstruction. See Synonyms at obstacle.
Expressing a command or plea; peremptory:  requests that grew more and more imperative. 
Of, relating to, or suggestive of an empire or a sovereign, especially an emperor or empress:  imperial rule; the imperial palace. 
Lacking personality; not being a person:  an impersonal force. 
An impelling force; an impulse.
To collide or strike:  Sound waves impinge on the eardrum. 
To set in firmly, as into the ground:  implant fence posts. 
The act of implicating or the condition of being implicated.
Implied or understood though not directly expressed:  an implicit agreement not to raise the touchy subject. 
The act of imposing or the condition of being imposed.
To reduce to poverty; make poor.
Readily or easily influenced; suggestible:  impressionable young people. 
Exemption from punishment, penalty, or harm.
Conducted within, coming from, or being within an organization or group:  an in-house computer system; in-house counsel; an in-house newsletter. 
Not duly attentive.
That cannot be transferred to another or others:  inalienable rights. 
Emitting visible light as a result of being heated.
Something, such as the fear of punishment or the expectation of reward, that induces action or motivates effort.
The act of incinerating, or the state of being incinerated; cremation.
Beginning to exist or appear:  detecting incipient tumors; an incipient personnel problem. 
Penetrating, clear, and sharp, as in operation or expression:  an incisive mind; incisive comments. 
Incapable of associating or blending or of being associated or blended because of disharmony, incongruity, or antagonism:  incompatible views on religion. 
Lack of congruence.
Lacking importance.
To unite (one thing) with something else already in existence:  incorporated the letter into her diary. 
To become greater or larger.
The process of increasing in number, size, quantity, or extent.
To accuse of a crime or other wrongful act.
The teaching of something by using frequent repetition
Imposed as an obligation or duty; obligatory:  felt it was incumbent on us all to help. 
An aggressive entrance into foreign territory; a raid or invasion.
Impossible to remove, erase, or wash away; permanent:  indelible ink. 
A contract binding one party into the service of another for a specified term. Often used in the plural.
A plural of index.
Originating and living or occurring naturally in an area or environment. See Synonyms at native.
Experiencing want or need; impoverished. See Synonyms at poor.
Anger aroused by something unjust, mean, or unworthy. See Synonyms at anger.
Not making or based on careful distinctions; unselective:  an indiscriminate shopper; indiscriminate taste in music. 
A nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory, antipyretic, and analgesic drug, C19H16ClNO4, used especially in the treatment of some forms of arthritis.
Something that helps bring about an action or a desired result; an incentive:  tax breaks intended as an inducement to greater reinvestment. 
To yield to the desires and whims of, especially to an excessive degree; humor.
Not apt or fitting; inappropriate.
Physics   The tendency of a body to resist acceleration; the tendency of a body at rest to remain at rest or of a body in straight line motion to stay in motion in a straight line unless acted on by an outside force.
Impossible to avoid or prevent. See Synonyms at certain.
Not capable of being persuaded by entreaty; relentless:  an inexorable opponent; a feeling of inexorable doom.  See Synonyms at inflexible.
Difficult or impossible to explain or account for.
So intricate or entangled as to make escape impossible:  an inextricable maze; an inextricable web of deceit. 
The earliest period of childhood, especially before the ability to walk has been acquired.
Capable of causing infection.
To inhabit or overrun in numbers or quantities large enough to be harmful, threatening, or obnoxious:  rats infesting the sewers; streets that were infested with drugs. 
Baseball   The area of the field bounded by home plate and first, second, and third bases.
A place for the care of the infirm, sick, or injured, especially a small hospital or dispensary in an institution.
Arousing passion or strong emotion, especially anger, belligerence, or desire.
The act of inflecting or the state of being inflected.
A flowing in:  an influx of foreign capital. 
Of or relating to the range of invisible radiation wavelengths from about 750 nanometers, just longer than red in the visible spectrum, to 1 millimeter, on the border of the microwave region.
Marked by inventive skill and imagination.
Inventive skill or imagination; cleverness.
To take into the body by the mouth for digestion or absorption. See Synonyms at eat.
Firmly established; deep-seated:  ingrained prejudice; the ingrained habits of a lifetime. 
The act or an instance of inhaling.
Existing as an essential constituent or characteristic; intrinsic.
Simple past tense and past participle of inherit.
Lacking pity or compassion.
Characterized by iniquity; wicked.
Of, relating to, or occurring at the beginning; first:  took the initial step toward peace. 
The act or an instance of enjoining; a command, directive, or order.
Possessed at birth; inborn.
To introduce a serum, vaccine, or antigenic substance into (the body of a person or animal), especially to produce or boost immunity to a specific disease.
Exceeding reasonable limits; immoderate. See Synonyms at excessive.
A patient who is admitted to a hospital or clinic for treatment that requires at least one overnight stay.
Something put into a system or expended in its operation to achieve output or a result, especially:
Of, relating to, or having the function of an inquisitor.
Impossible to satiate or satisfy:  an insatiable appetite; an insatiable hunger for knowledge. 
To write, print, carve, or engrave (words or letters) on or in a surface.
To write, print, carve, or engrave (words or letters) on or in a surface.
Working or spreading harmfully in a subtle or stealthy manner:  insidious rumors; an insidious disease. 
The capacity to discern the true nature of a situation; penetration.
Chronic inability to fall asleep or remain asleep for an adequate length of time.
The act of installing.
Occurring or completed without perceptible delay:  Relief was instantaneous. 
To urge on; goad.
To introduce by gradual, persistent efforts; implant: "Morality . . . may be instilled into their minds”  ( Thomas Jefferson). 
To cause to be in a detached or isolated position. See Synonyms at isolate.
A polypeptide hormone secreted by the islets of Langerhans and functioning in the regulation of the metabolism of carbohydrates and fats, especially the conversion of glucose to glycogen, which lowers the blood glucose level.
Remaining sound, entire, or uninjured; not impaired in any way.
An opening by which a fluid is admitted into a container or conduit.
Incapable of being perceived by the senses.
Mathematics   A member of the set of positive whole numbers {1, 2, 3, . . . }, negative whole numbers {-1, -2, -3, . . . }, and zero {0}.
Essential or necessary for completeness; constituent:  The kitchen is an integral part of a house. 
To make into a whole by bringing all parts together; unify.
Possessing or displaying a distinctive feature to an extreme degree:  the intense sun of the tropics. 
A course of action that one intends to follow.
Done deliberately; intended:  an intentional slight.  See Synonyms at voluntary.
To stop, deflect, or interrupt the progress or intended course of:  intercepted me with a message as I was leaving. 
A mutual dependence, connection or correlation
Any of several optical, acoustic, or radio frequency instruments that use interference phenomena between a reference wave and an experimental wave or between two parts of an experimental wave to determine wavelengths and wave velocities, measure very small distances and thicknesses, and calculate indices of refraction.
Of, relating to, or located on the inside; inner.
An intervening episode, feature, or period of time: "Kerensky has a place in history, of a brief interlude between despotisms”  ( William Safire). 
Existing or occurring between; intermediate.
Stopping and starting at intervals. See Synonyms at periodic.
Of or relating to struggle within a nation, organization, or group.
An abrupt change in elements, with continuation of the first idea.
To place in or come into mutual relationship.
To cut across or through:  The path intersects the park. 
The act, process, or result of intersecting.
Of, relating to, or constituting the intestine:  the intestinal wall; intestinal bacteria. 
The portion of the alimentary canal extending from the stomach to the anus and, in humans and other mammals, consisting of two segments, the small intestine and the large intestine. Often used in the plural.
Marked by close acquaintance, association, or familiarity.
Occurring or situated within a cell or cells:  intracellular fluid. 
Having many complexly arranged elements; elaborate. See Synonyms at elaborate.
A secret or underhand scheme; a plot.
Causing a desire to know more; mysterious.
Of or relating to the essential nature of a thing; inherent.
In an intrinsic manner; internally; essentially.
A member of a group of Eskimoan peoples inhabiting the Arctic from northern Alaska eastward to eastern Greenland, particularly those of Canada.
To make invalid; nullify.
A detailed, itemized list, report, or record of things in one's possession, especially a periodic survey of all goods and materials in stock.
Lacking a backbone or spinal column; not vertebrate.
Firmly and long established; deep-rooted:  inveterate preferences. 
To impart vigor, strength, or vitality to; animate: "A few whiffs of the raw, strong scent of phlox invigorated her”  ( D.H. Lawrence). 
To call on (a higher power) for assistance, support, or inspiration: "Stretching out her hands she had the air of a Greek woman who invoked a deity”  ( Ford Madox Ford). 
An atom or a group of atoms that has acquired a net electric charge by gaining or losing one or more electrons.
Extremely angry; enraged. See Synonyms at angry.
A very hard and brittle, exceptionally corrosion-resistant, whitish-yellow metallic element occurring in platinum ores and used principally to harden platinum and in high-temperature materials, electrical contacts, and wear-resistant bearings. Atomic number 77; atomic weight 192.2; melting point 2,410°C; boiling point 4,130°C; specific gravity 22.42 (at 17°C); valence 3, 4. See Table at element.
In an ironic manner, in a way displaying irony.
Not endowed with reason.
Unrelated to the matter being considered.
Causing irritation, especially physical irritation.
Of, pertaining to, originating in, characteristic of, or deriving from Islam.
The act of isolating.
One of two or more atoms having the same atomic number but different mass numbers.
A short coat usually extending to the hips.
An opaque cryptocrystalline variety of quartz that may be red, yellow, or brown.
A bone of the jaw, especially the bone of the lower jaw.
To expose to loss or injury; imperil. See Synonyms at endanger.
To cast overboard or off:  a ship jettisoning wastes; a pilot jettisoning aircraft fuel. 
To move or dislodge with a sudden, hard blow; strike heavily or jarringly:  jolted his opponent with a heavy punch; an impact that jolted the mailbox loose. 
Having or exhibiting sound judgment; prudent.
An unusually large person, animal, or thing.
Law   The right and power to interpret and apply the law:  courts having jurisdiction in this district. 
Not fully grown or developed; young.
To place side by side, especially for comparison or contrast.
Any of various brown, often very large seaweeds of the order Laminariales.
To seize and detain unlawfully and usually for ransom.
Of, relating to, or produced by motion.
Connection by blood, marriage, or adoption; family relationship.
A clever, expedient way of doing something.
Of, relating to, or derived from milk.
A method of solid waste disposal in which refuse is buried between layers of dirt so as to fill in or reclaim low-lying ground.
Plural form of larva.
Any of several devices that emit highly amplified and coherent radiation of one or more discrete frequencies. One of the most common lasers makes use of atoms in a metastable energy state that, as they decay to a lower energy level, stimulate others to decay, resulting in a cascade of emitted radiation.
A fastening, as for a door or gate, typically consisting of a bar that fits into a notch or slot and is lifted from either side by a lever or string.
Of, relating to, or situated at or on the side.
The angular distance north or south of the earth's equator, measured in degrees along a meridian, as on a map or globe.
Deserving commendation; praiseworthy.
Expressing or conferring praise:  a laudatory review of the new play. 
A Mediterranean evergreen tree (Laurus nobilis) having aromatic, simple leaves and small blackish berries. Also called bay5, bay laurel, sweet bay.
A contract granting use or occupation of property during a specified period in exchange for a specified rent.
Suspicious or distrustful; wary:  was leery of aggressive salespeople. 
The drift of a ship or an aircraft to leeward of the course being steered.
A limb or an appendage of an animal, used for locomotion or support.
An officially elected or otherwise selected body of people vested with the responsibility and power to make laws for a political unit, such as a state or nation.
The quality or fact of being legitimate.
Being in compliance with the law; lawful:  a legitimate business. 
The state, quality, or fact of being long. See Usage Note at strength.
One of the Lepidoptera.
A chronic, mildly contagious granulomatous disease of tropical and subtropical regions, caused by the bacillus Mycobacterium leprae, characterized by ulcers of the skin, bone, and viscera and leading to loss of sensation, paralysis, gangrene, and deformation. Also called Hansen's disease.
Capable of causing death.
A reduction in pace, force, or intensity; a slowdown.
An essential amino acid, C4H9CH(NH2)COOH, obtained by the hydrolysis of protein by pancreatic enzymes during digestion and necessary for optimal growth in infants and children and for the maintenance of nitrogen balance in adults.
Any of various acute or chronic neoplastic diseases of the bone marrow in which unrestrained proliferation of white blood cells occurs, usually accompanied by anemia, impaired blood clotting, and enlargement of the lymph nodes, liver, and spleen.
A simple machine consisting of a rigid bar pivoted on a fixed point and used to transmit force, as in raising or moving a weight at one end by pushing down on the other.
To impose or collect (a tax, for example).
One who writes, compiles, or edits a dictionary.
The state of being liable.
To see, mention, or show as similar; compare.
A common sedimentary rock consisting mostly of calcium carbonate, CaCO3, used as a building stone and in the manufacture of lime, carbon dioxide, and cement.
Language that is unintelligible or unfamiliar.
A person who speaks several languages fluently.
The study of the nature, structure, and variation of language, including phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, sociolinguistics, and pragmatics.
To look on or treat (a person) as a celebrity.
Any of a group of organic compounds, including the fats, oils, waxes, sterols, and triglycerides, that are insoluble in water but soluble in nonpolar organic solvents, are oily to the touch, and together with carbohydrates and proteins constitute the principal structural material of living cells.
Any of a group of conjugated proteins in which at least one of the components is a lipid. Lipoproteins, classified according to their densities and chemical qualities, are the principal means by which lipids are transported in the blood.
The act of exchange of an asset of lesser liquidity with a more liquid one, such as cash.
One who liquidates.
Lacking energy or disinclined to exert effort; lethargic:  reacted to the latest crisis with listless resignation. 
A party engaged in a lawsuit.
To be alive; exist.
Anatomy   A large, reddish-brown, glandular vertebrate organ located in the upper right portion of the abdominal cavity that secretes bile and is active in the formation of certain blood proteins and in the metabolism of carbohydrates, fats, and proteins.
Domestic animals, such as cattle or horses, raised for home use or for profit, especially on a farm.
A shaped mass of bread baked in one piece.
A person remunerated to persuade (to lobby) politicians to vote in a certain way or otherwise use their office to effect a desired result.
A rounded projection, especially a rounded, projecting anatomical part:  the lobe of an ear. 
A place, especially with reference to a particular event:  the locale of a crime. 
The act of moving from place to place.
Printing   A single piece of type bearing two or more usually separate elements.
Long life; great duration of life:  His longevity vexed his heirs. 
To come into view as a massive, distorted, or indistinct image: "I faced the icons that loomed through the veil of incense”  ( Fergus M. Bordewich).  See Synonyms at appear.
Accumulated facts, traditions, or beliefs about a particular subject. See Synonyms at knowledge.
Informal   A large extent, amount, or number. Often used in the plural:  is in a lot of trouble; has lots of friends. 
The emission of light that does not derive energy from the temperature of the emitting body, as in phosphorescence, fluorescence, and bioluminescence. Luminescence is caused by chemical, biochemical, or crystallographic changes, the motions of subatomic particles, or radiation-induced excitation of an atomic system.
The condition or quality of being luminous.
Of, involving, caused by, or affecting the moon.
Having or characterized by luxuriant vegetation.
A clear, watery, sometimes faintly yellowish fluid derived from body tissues that contains white blood cells and circulates throughout the lymphatic system, returning to the venous bloodstream through the thoracic duct. Lymph acts to remove bacteria and certain proteins from the tissues, transport fat from the small intestine, and supply mature lymphocytes to the blood.
Of or relating to lymph, a lymph vessel, or a lymph node.
Any of the nearly colorless cells found in the blood, lymph, and lymphoid tissues, constituting approximately 25 percent of white blood cells and including B cells, which function in humoral immunity, and T cells, which function in cellular immunity.
Expressing deep personal emotion or observations:  a dancer's lyrical performance; a lyrical passage in his autobiography. 
Biochemistry   The dissolution or destruction of cells, such as blood cells or bacteria, as by the action of a specific lysin that disrupts the cell membrane.
Any of several short-tailed monkeys of the genus Macaca of southeast Asia, Japan, Gibraltar, and northern Africa.
Any of the large phagocytic cells of the reticuloendothelial system.
Of or relating to magnetism or magnets.
Greatness of rank or position: "such duties as were expected of a landowner of his magnitude”  ( Anthony Powell). 
To disable or disfigure, usually by depriving of the use of a limb or other part of the body. See Synonyms at batter1.
The prevailing current of thought, influence, or activity: "You need not accept the nominee's ideology, only be able to locate it in the American mainstream”  ( Charles Krauthammer). 
See corn1.
Marked by faulty or inadequate adaptation.
A disease, a disorder, or an ailment.
An infectious disease characterized by cycles of chills, fever, and sweating, caused by a protozoan of the genus Plasmodium in red blood cells, which is transmitted to humans by the bite of an infected female anopheles mosquito.
To fail to function.
Improper or negligent treatment of a patient, as by a physician, resulting in injury, damage, or loss.
Of, or pertaining to, mammals.
Required or commanded by authority; obligatory:  Attendance at the meeting is mandatory. 
A strategic or tactical military or naval movement.
To move, arrange, operate, or control by the hands or by mechanical means, especially in a skillful manner:  She manipulated the lights to get just the effect she wanted. 
A distinctive behavioral trait; an idiosyncrasy.
To make or process (a raw material) into a finished product, especially by means of a large-scale industrial operation.
An edge and the area immediately adjacent to it; a border. See Synonyms at border.
Of, relating to, located at, or constituting a margin, a border, or an edge:  the marginal strip of beach; a marginal issue that had no bearing on the election results. 
The cannabis plant.
Of or relating to the sea:  marine exploration. 
Bone marrow.
Of, relating to, or suggestive of war.
The quality or condition of being masculine.
A covering worn on the face to conceal one's identity, as:
One who builds or works with stone or brick.
A unified body of matter with no specific shape:  a mass of clay. 
Relating to or characteristic of a mother or motherhood; motherly:  maternal instinct. 
A situation or surrounding substance within which something else originates, develops, or is contained: "Freedom of expression is the matrix, the indispensable condition, of nearly every form of freedom”  ( Benjamin N. Cardozo). 
Having reached full natural growth or development:  a mature cell. 
The greatest possible quantity or degree.
To follow a winding and turning course:  Streams tend to meander through level land. 
An acute, contagious viral disease, usually occurring in childhood and characterized by eruption of red spots on the skin, fever, and catarrhal symptoms. Also called rubeola.
A machine or mechanical appliance.
Relating to, located in, or extending toward the middle.
Relating or belonging to the Middle Ages.
Something, such as an intermediate course of action, that occupies a position or represents a condition midway between extremes.
Something, such as an intermediate course of action, that occupies a position or represents a condition midway between extremes.
Showing patience and humility; gentle.
Of or pertaining to megaliths, to the people who made them, or to the period when they were made
Sadness or depression of the spirits; gloom: "There is melancholy in the wind and sorrow in the grass”  ( Charles Kuralt). 
Biology   A thin, pliable layer of tissue covering surfaces or separating or connecting regions, structures, or organs of an animal or a plant.
A reminder of the past; a keepsake.
An account of the personal experiences of an author.
One whose occupation is the wholesale purchase and retail sale of goods for profit.
To subject (a substance) to metabolism.
To change into a wholly different form or appearance; transform: "His eyes turned bloodshot, and he was metamorphosed into a raging fiend”  ( Jack London). 
A stony or metallic mass of matter that has fallen to the earth's surface from outer space.
One who studies meteorology.
An odorless, colorless, flammable gas, CH4, the major constituent of natural gas, that is used as a fuel and is an important source of hydrogen and a wide variety of organic compounds.
A body of practices, procedures, and rules used by those who work in a discipline or engage in an inquiry; a set of working methods:  the methodology of genetic studies; a poll marred by faulty methodology. 
Of, relating to, or characteristic of a major city:  crowded metropolitan streets; a metropolitan newspaper. 
A severe recurring headache, usually affecting only one side of the head, characterized by sharp pain and often accompanied by nausea, vomiting, and visual disturbances. Also called megrim.
One that moves from one region to another by chance, instinct, or plan.
An environment or a setting.
Plural form of millennium.
To copy or imitate closely, especially in speech, expression, and gesture; ape.
To mix or bring together in combination, usually without loss of individual characteristics. See Synonyms at mix.
A copy or model that represents or reproduces something in a greatly reduced size.
The least possible quantity or degree.
Mathematics   Reduced by the subtraction of; less:  Ten minus four is six. 
A unit of time equal to one sixtieth of an hour, or 60 seconds.
An event that appears inexplicable by the laws of nature and so is held to be supernatural in origin or an act of God: "Miracles are spontaneous, they cannot be summoned, but come of themselves”  ( Katherine Anne Porter). 
Bad luck.
An object or weapon that is fired, thrown, dropped, or otherwise projected at a target; a projectile.
Any of various small or minute arachnids of the order Acarina that are often parasitic on animals and plants, infest stored food products, and in some species transmit disease.
To moderate (a quality or condition) in force or intensity; alleviate. See Synonyms at relieve.
Plural form of mitochondrion.
A large disorderly crowd or throng. See Synonyms at crowd1.
The quality or state of being mobile.
Having or showing a moderate estimation of one's own talents, abilities, and value.
The act of modifying or the condition of being modified.
To change in form or character; alter.
A hollow form or matrix for shaping a fluid or plastic substance.
Archaic  A past participle of melt.
Of utmost importance; of outstanding significance or consequence:  a momentous occasion; a momentous decision. 
One who reigns over a state or territory, usually for life and by hereditary right, especially:
One that admonishes, cautions, or reminds, especially with respect to matters of conduct.
A picture, especially a painting, done in different shades of a single color.
Exclusive control by one group of the means of producing or selling a commodity or service: "Monopoly frequently ... arises from government support or from collusive agreements among individuals”  ( Milton Friedman). 
Sounded or spoken in an unvarying tone.
A wind system that influences large climatic regions and reverses direction seasonally.
The state of the spirits of a person or group as exhibited by confidence, cheerfulness, discipline, and willingness to perform assigned tasks.
A bitter crystalline alkaloid, C17H19NO3·H2O, extracted from opium, the soluble salts of which are used in medicine as an analgesic, a light anesthetic, or a sedative. Also called morphia.
Of or pertaining to morphogenesis
Of, or pertaining to, morphology
The quality or condition of being mortal.
A temporary, conditional pledge of property to a creditor as security for performance of an obligation or repayment of a debt.
A picture or decorative design made by setting small colored pieces, as of stone or tile, into a surface.
A Muslim house of worship.
Any of various two-winged insects of the family Culicidae, in which the female of most species is distinguished by a long proboscis for sucking blood. Some species are vectors of diseases such as malaria and yellow fever. Also called regionally skeeter. See Regional Note at possum.
Any of numerous insects of the order Lepidoptera, generally distinguished from butterflies by their nocturnal activity, hairlike or feathery antennae, stout bodies, and the frenulum that holds the front and back wings together.
The act or process of changing position or place.
A small, wild European sheep (Ovis musimon), native to Sardinia and Corsica and having large curving horns in the male.
A pile of earth, gravel, sand, rocks, or debris heaped for protection or concealment.
The act or an instance of moving; a change in place or position.
Having, relating to, or consisting of more than one individual, element, part, or other component; manifold.
One that multiplies:  This old house is a multiplier of expenses. 
To increase the amount, number, or degree of.
Of, relating to, or typical of this world; secular.
Of, relating to, or typical of a municipality.
A very large image, such as a painting or enlarged photograph, applied directly to a wall or ceiling.
The act or process of being altered or changed.
Refraining from producing speech or vocal sound.
Open rebellion against constituted authority, especially rebellion of sailors against superior officers.
Having the same relationship each to the other:  mutual predators. 
nearsighted; unable to see distant objects unaided
Of or relating to religious mysteries or occult rites and practices.
Of, relating to, or recorded in myths or mythology.
Astronomy   A point on the celestial sphere directly below the observer, diametrically opposite the zenith.
Having an inflated idea of one's own importance.
One who narrates or tells stories.
Of, relating to, or accompanying birth:  natal injuries. 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization
Of or relating to ships or shipping. See Synonyms at nautical.
The theory and practice of navigating, especially the charting of a course for a ship or aircraft.
A Protestant movement that arose during World War I and is closely associated with Karl Barth. It opposes liberalism and advocates certain theological, especially Calvinist doctrines of the Reformation.
A new word, expression, or usage.
A newborn infant, especially one less than four weeks old.
Formation of nervous tissue.
See antipsychotic drug.
Any of the impulse-conducting cells that constitute the brain, spinal column, and nerves, consisting of a nucleated cell body with one or more dendrites and a single axon. Also called nerve cell.
Any of the impulse-conducting cells that constitute the brain, spinal column, and nerves, consisting of a nucleated cell body with one or more dendrites and a single axon. Also called nerve cell.
Not aligned with, supporting, or favoring either side in a war, dispute, or contest.
Any of three electrically neutral subatomic particles in the lepton family. See Table at subatomic particle.
A means of connection; a link or tie: "this nexus between New York's . . . real-estate investors and its . . . politicians”  ( Wall Street Journal). 
A recess in a wall, as for holding a statue or urn.
A silvery, hard, ductile, ferromagnetic metallic element used in alloys, in corrosion-resistant surfaces and batteries, and for electroplating. Atomic number 28; atomic weight 58.69; melting point 1,453°C; boiling point 2,732°C; specific gravity 8.902; valence 0, 1, 2, 3. See Table at element.
A colorless, poisonous alkaloid, C10H14N2, derived from the tobacco plant and used as an insecticide. It is the substance in tobacco to which smokers can become addicted.
Any of several plants of the genus Solanum, such as the bittersweet nightshade, most of which have a poisonous juice.
Of, derived from, or containing nitrogen, especially in a valence state higher than that in a comparable nitrous compound.
A nonmetallic element that constitutes nearly four-fifths of the air by volume, occurring as a colorless, odorless, almost inert diatomic gas, N2, in various minerals and in all proteins and used in a wide variety of important manufactures, including ammonia, nitric acid, TNT, and fertilizers. Atomic number 7; atomic weight 14.0067; melting point -209.86°C; boiling point -195.8°C; valence 3, 5. See Table at element.
A member of a group of people who have no fixed home and move according to the seasons from place to place in search of food, water, and grazing land.
A bittersweet longing for things, persons, or situations of the past.
Known widely and usually unfavorably; infamous:  a notorious gangster; a district notorious for vice. 
A star that suddenly becomes much brighter and then gradually returns to its original brightness over a period of weeks to years.
The quality of being novel; newness.
A person new to a field or activity; a beginner.
Procaine.
Harmful to living things; injurious to health:  noxious chemical wastes. 
A subtle or slight degree of difference, as in meaning, feeling, or tone; a gradation.
Biology   Of, relating to, or forming a nucleus:  a nuclear membrane. 
Any of various compounds consisting of a nucleoside combined with a phosphate group and forming the basic constituent of DNA and RNA.
A central or essential part around which other parts are gathered or grouped; a core:  the nucleus of a city. 
Having no legal force; invalid:  render a contract null and void. 
Mathematics   A member of the set of positive integers; one of a series of symbols of unique meaning in a fixed order that can be derived by counting.
Mathematics   The expression written above the line in a common fraction to indicate the number of parts of the whole.
Providing nourishment; nourishing.
Any of a family of high-strength, resilient synthetic polymers, the molecules of which contain the recurring amide group CONH.
Meal made from oats; rolled or ground oats.
The quality or condition of being obedient.
A gesture or movement of the body, such as a curtsy, that expresses deference or homage.
The condition of being obese; increased body weight caused by excessive accumulation of fat.
A published notice of a death, sometimes with a brief biography of the deceased.
Very annoying or objectionable; offensive or odious: "I know no method to secure the repeal of bad or obnoxious laws so effective as their stringent execution”  ( Ulysses S. Grant). 
Deficient in light; dark.
To preoccupy the mind of excessively.
A usually black or banded, hard volcanic glass that displays shiny, curved surfaces when fractured and is formed by rapid cooling of lava.
The state of being obsolete—no longer in use; gone into disuse; disused or neglected.
of, or relating to obstetrics
Thrusting out; protruding:  an obtrusive rock formation. 
To anticipate and dispose of effectively; render unnecessary. See Synonyms at prevent.
To fill up (time or space):  a lecture that occupied three hours. 
Any of several earthy mineral oxides of iron occurring in yellow, brown, or red and used as pigments.
A polygon with eight sides and eight angles.
A certain number of points given beforehand to a weaker side in a contest to equalize the chances of all participants.
The property or quality of a thing that affects, stimulates, or is perceived by the sense of smell. See Synonyms at smell.
Available from merchandise in stock; not custom-made.
An agent, element, or thing that balances, counteracts, or compensates for something else.
Something that branches out or derives its existence or origin from a particular source. See Synonyms at branch.
Of, relating to, or contributing to the sense of smell.
A phenomenon supposed to portend good or evil; a prophetic sign.
Having unlimited or universal power, authority, or force; all-powerful. See Usage Note at infinite.
An onslaught; an assault.
Impenetrable by light; neither transparent nor translucent.
Of or relating to sight; visual:  an optical defect. 
Most favorable or desirable; optimum.
Possessing or exhibiting great wealth; affluent.
Music   A large group of musicians who play together on various instruments, usually including strings, woodwinds, brass instruments, and percussion instruments.
An authoritative command or order.
Arranged in regular rows, as the spots on the wings of an insect.
A mineral or an aggregate of minerals from which a valuable constituent, especially a metal, can be profitably mined or extracted.
A differentiated structure within a cell, such as a mitochondrion, vacuole, or chloroplast, that performs a specific function.
An individual form of life, such as a plant, animal, bacterium, protist, or fungus; a body made up of organs, organelles, or other parts that work together to carry on the various processes of life.
The act of orienting or the state of being oriented.
Adhering to the accepted or traditional and established faith, especially in religion.
Of or pertaining to orthogenesis
A fish-eating hawk (Pandion haliaetus) having plumage that is dark on the back and white below. Also called fish hawk.
Represented or appearing as such; ostensive:  His ostensible purpose was charity, but his real goal was popularity. 
Pretentious display meant to impress others; boastful showiness.
To eject from a position or place; force out: "the American Revolution, which ousted the English”  ( Virginia S. Eifert). 
Out-of-date; old-fashioned.
To outrun, especially in a long-distance race.
Baseball   The playing area extending outward from the diamond, divided into left, center, and right field.
The act or process of growing out.
The spending or disbursement of money:  the weekly outlay on groceries. 
A passage for escape or exit; a vent.
Not in fashion; unfashionable:  outmoded attire; outmoded ideas. 
Farthest out; outermost.
To exceed the number of; be more numerous than.
A patient who is admitted to a hospital or clinic for treatment that does not require an overnight stay.
The act or process of producing; production.
Grossly offensive to decency or morality.
Without reservation or qualification; openly:  finally responded outright to the question. 
Resembling an egg in shape.
Of or relating to an ovary.
To form an arch over:  Grape vines overarched the garden path. 
To expand or disperse beyond a safe or reasonable limit:  overextended their defenses. 
To lie over or on.
A lord having power or supremacy over other lords.
To refine beyond a desired or appropriate point.
First in priority; more important than all others:  Our overriding concern is the eradication of illiteracy. 
To seize the positions of and defeat conclusively:  The position of the forward infantry was overrun by large numbers of enemy troops at dawn. 
Open and observable; not hidden, concealed, or secret:  overt hostility; overt intelligence gathering. 
An ulterior, usually implicit meaning or quality; an implication or a hint. Often used in the plural:  an overtone of anger barely masked; praise with overtones of envy. 
To use to excess.
Presumptuously arrogant; overbearing:  had a witty but overweening manner about him. 
A binary compound of an element or radical with oxygen.
An unstable, poisonous allotrope of oxygen, O3, that is formed naturally in the ozone layer from atmospheric oxygen by electric discharge or exposure to ultraviolet radiation, also produced in the lower atmosphere by the photochemical reaction of certain pollutants. It is a highly reactive oxidizing agent used to deodorize air, purify water, and treat industrial wastes.
The system by which pages are numbered.
Marked by or requiring great pains; very careful and diligent. See Synonyms at meticulous.
In a painstaking manner; very slowly and carefully.
Two corresponding persons or items, similar in form or function and matched or associated:  a pair of shoes. 
The condition of being palatable
A climatologist who specializes in paleoclimatology
Alternative capitalization of Paleolithic Often used more generally to suggest that something is extremely outdated.
one who studies paleontology
Having an abnormally pale or wan complexion:  the pallid face of the invalid. 
The inner surface of the hand that extends from the wrist to the base of the fingers.
Lacking in importance or worth. See Synonyms at trivial.
An unbound printed work, usually with a paper cover.
A remedy for all diseases, evils, or difficulties; a cure-all.
A flat, usually rectangular piece forming a raised, recessed, or framed part of the surface in which it is set.
A sudden sharp spasm of pain. See Synonyms at pain.
Work involving the handling of reports, letters, and forms.
One that serves as a pattern or model.
An apparent change in the direction of an object, caused by a change in observational position that provides a new line of sight.
Being an equal distance apart everywhere:  dancers in two parallel rows.  See Usage Note at absolute.
A four-sided plane figure with opposite sides parallel.
Mathematics   A constant in an equation that varies in other equations of the same general form, especially such a constant in the equation of a curve or surface that can be varied to represent a family of curves or surfaces.
Beyond the range of normal experience or scientific explanation:  such paranormal phenomena as telepathy; a medium's paranormal powers. 
A restatement of a text or passage in another form or other words, often to clarify meaning.
The study of the evidence for psychological phenomena, such as telepathy, clairvoyance, and psychokinesis, that are inexplicable by science.
Biology   An organism that grows, feeds, and is sheltered on or in a different organism while contributing nothing to the survival of its host.
To remove the outer covering or skin of with a knife or similar instrument:  pare apples. 
Set off within or as if within parentheses; qualifying or explanatory:  a parenthetical remark. 
An administrative part of a diocese that has its own church in the Anglican, Roman Catholic, and some other churches.
Of, relating to, supported by, or located in a parish.
Law   The release of a prisoner whose term has not expired on condition of sustained lawful behavior that is subject to regular monitoring by an officer of the law for a set period of time.
Of, belonging to, or associated with a specific person, group, thing, or category; not general or universal:  has a particular preference for Chinese art. 
Of, relating to, or formed of minute separate particles.
A fervent, sometimes militant supporter or proponent of a party, cause, faction, person, or idea.
To move on or ahead; proceed.
See bankbook.
Unleavened dough, made of wheat flour, water, and sometimes eggs, that is molded into any of a variety of shapes and boiled.
Grass or other vegetation eaten as food by grazing animals.
A grant made by a government that confers upon the creator of an invention the sole right to make, use, and sell that invention for a set period of time.
A policy or practice of treating or governing people in a fatherly manner, especially by providing for their needs without giving them rights or responsibilities.
Capable of causing disease.
The scientific study of the nature of disease and its causes, processes, development, and consequences. Also called pathobiology.
One that supports, protects, or champions someone or something, such as an institution, event, or cause; a sponsor or benefactor:  a patron of the arts. 
The support or encouragement of a patron, as for an institution or cause.
To act as a patron to; support or sponsor.
A tapering, projecting point; a pointed extremity:  the peak of a cap; the peak of a roof. 
Of or relating to money:  a pecuniary loss; pecuniary motives. 
pedagogic
Characterized by a narrow, often ostentatious concern for book learning and formal rules:  a pedantic attention to details. 
One who travels about selling wares for a living.
A person traveling on foot; a walker.
To look intently, searchingly, or with difficulty. See Synonyms at gaze.
Of, in, near, or relating to the pelvis:  a pelvic artery. 
A basin-shaped structure of the vertebrate skeleton, composed of the innominate bones on the sides, the pubis in front, and the sacrum and coccyx behind, that rests on the lower limbs and supports the spinal column.
A punishment established by law or authority for a crime or offense.
Something suspended from something else, especially an ornament or piece of jewelry attached to a necklace or bracelet.
To enter or force a way into; pierce.
A piece of land that projects into a body of water and is connected with the mainland by an isthmus.
The condition or quality of being penitent; regret for wrongdoing.
A prison for those convicted of major crimes.
spend money frugally; spend as little as possible
A sum of money paid regularly as a retirement benefit or by way of patronage.
A polygon having five sides and five interior angles.
Any of various natural or synthetic compounds containing two or more amino acids linked by the carboxyl group of one amino acid to the amino group of another.
To become aware of directly through any of the senses, especially sight or hearing.
The process, act, or faculty of perceiving.
Lasting or active through the year or through many years.
Done routinely and with little interest or care:  The operator answered the phone with a perfunctory greeting. 
Mathematics   A closed curve bounding a plane area.
The quality or state of being periodic; recurrence at regular intervals.
Related to, located in, or constituting an outer boundary or periphery.
A line that forms the boundary of an area; a perimeter. See Synonyms at circumference.
To die or be destroyed, especially in a violent or untimely manner: "Must then a Christ perish in torment in every age to save those who have no imagination?”  ( George Bernard Shaw). 
Any of several small, often edible marine snails, especially of the genus Littorina, having thick, cone-shaped, whorled shells.
To stick up or jut out:  dogs' ears that perk. 
To spread or flow throughout; pervade: "Our thinking is permeated by our historical myths”  ( Freeman J. Dyson).  See Synonyms at charge.
A complete change; a transformation.
Tending to cause death or serious injury; deadly:  a pernicious virus. 
Mathematics   Intersecting at or forming right angles.
One who perpetrates; especially, one who commits an offence or crime.
To oppress or harass with ill-treatment, especially because of race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, or beliefs.
The fluid, consisting of water with small amounts of urea and salts, that is excreted through the pores of the skin by the sweat glands; sweat.
Having logical precise relevance to the matter at hand. See Synonyms at relevant.
Having the quality or tendency to pervade or permeate:  the pervasive odor of garlic. 
The act of perverting.
A chemical used to kill pests, especially insects.
A solemn supplication or request to a superior authority; an entreaty.
The engulfing and ingestion of bacteria or other foreign bodies by phagocytes.
Of or relating to pharmacy or pharmacists.
A student of pharmacology; one versed in the science of pharmacology.
A distinct stage of development: "The American occupation of Japan fell into three successive phases”  ( Edwin O. Reischauer). 
A machine that reproduces sound by means of a stylus in contact with a grooved rotating disk.
Not genuine or real; counterfeit:  a phony credit card. 
A salt or ester of phosphoric acid.
The quantum of electromagnetic energy, regarded as a discrete particle having zero mass, no electric charge, and an indefinitely long lifetime. See Table at subatomic particle.
The process in green plants and certain other organisms by which carbohydrates are synthesized from carbon dioxide and water using light as an energy source. Most forms of photosynthesis release oxygen as a byproduct.
Of or relating to physiology.
A substance used as coloring.
Architecture   A small turret or spire on a roof or buttress.
A unit of volume or capacity in the U.S. Customary System, used in liquid measure, equal to  1/8  gallon or 16 ounces (0.473 liter).
A horse with patchy markings of white and another color. Also called paint.
The pituitary gland.
A widespread affliction or calamity, especially one seen as divine retribution.
Law   The party that institutes a suit in a court.
Mathematics   A surface containing all the straight lines that connect any two points on it.
A flat plate, slab, or disk that is ornamented or engraved for mounting, as on a wall for decoration or on a monument for information.
The clear, yellowish fluid portion of blood, lymph, or intramuscular fluid in which cells are suspended. It differs from serum in that it contains fibrin and other soluble clotting elements.
A horizontal surface raised above the level of the adjacent area, as a stage for public speaking or a landing alongside railroad tracks.
Seemingly or apparently valid, likely, or acceptable; credible:  a plausible excuse. 
To appeal earnestly; beg:  plead for more time. 
of or pertaining to pleiotropy
Easily bent or flexed; pliable. See Synonyms at malleable.
A gripping tool that multiplies the strength of the friendRequest's hand
A weight on the end of a line, used to determine water depth.
See plumb bob.
Of or relating to social or philosophical pluralism.
Mathematics   Increased by the addition of:  Two plus two is four. 
A naturally radioactive, silvery, metallic transuranic element, occurring in uranium ores and produced artificially by neutron bombardment of uranium. Its longest-lived isotope is Pu 244 with a half-life of 76 million years. It is a radiological poison, specifically absorbed by bone marrow, and is used, especially the highly fissionable isotope Pu 239, as a reactor fuel and in nuclear weapons. Atomic number 94; melting point 640°C; boiling point 3,235°C; specific gravity 19.84; valence 3, 4, 5, 6. See Table at element.
A structural material made of layers of wood glued together, usually with the grains of adjoining layers at right angles to each other.
An acute or chronic disease marked by inflammation of the lungs and caused by viruses, bacteria, or other microorganisms and sometimes by physical and chemical irritants.
A vessel or dish designed for the poaching of food, such as eggs or fish.
Having an end coming to a point.
To push or jab at, as with a finger or an arm; prod.
Intrinsic polar separation, alignment, or orientation, especially of a physical property:  magnetic polarity; ionic polarity. 
The fine powderlike material consisting of pollen grains that is produced by the anthers of seed plants.
To transfer pollen from an anther to the stigma of (a flower).
the transfer of pollen from an anther to a stigma; effected by insects, birds, bats and the wind etc.
A government by many persons, of whatever order or class.
A closed plane figure bounded by three or more line segments.
An instrument that simultaneously records changes in physiological processes such as heartbeat, blood pressure, and respiration, often used as a lie detector.
Biology   An organism characterized by polymorphism.
Characterized by excessive self-esteem or exaggerated dignity; pretentious:  pompous officials who enjoy giving orders. 
To make a short, sharp, explosive sound.
A hard, white, translucent ceramic made by firing a pure clay and then glazing it with variously colored fusible materials; china.
The act or an instance of carrying.
To serve as an omen or a warning of; presage:  black clouds that portend a storm. 
The act or process of depicting or portraying.
Future generations: "Everything he writes is consigned to posterity”  ( Joyce Carol Oates). 
Any of various theories or methods of analysis, including deconstruction and some psychoanalytic theories, that deny the validity of structuralism's method of binary opposition and maintain that meanings and intellectual categories are shifting and unstable.
A soft, silver-white, highly or explosively reactive metallic element that occurs in nature only in compounds. It is obtained by electrolysis of its common hydroxide and found in, or converted to, a wide variety of salts used especially in fertilizers and soaps. Atomic number 19; atomic weight 39.098; melting point 63.65°C; boiling point 774°C; specific gravity 0.862; valence 1. See Table at element.
Possessing inner or physical strength; powerful.
A combination of incongruous things: "In the minds of many, the real and imagined causes for Russia's defeats quickly mingled into a potpourri of terrible fears”  ( W. Bruce Lincoln). 
Ware, such as vases, pots, bowls, or plates, shaped from moist clay and hardened by heat.
The ability or capacity to perform or act effectively.
One who practices something, especially an occupation, profession, or technique.
Dealing or concerned with facts or actual occurrences; practical.
An extensive area of flat or rolling, predominantly treeless grassland, especially the large tract or plain of central North America.
An action taken in advance to protect against possible danger, failure, or injury; a safeguard:  followed safety precautions when using heavy machinery. 
A headlong fall or rush.
Resembling a precipice; extremely steep. See Synonyms at steep1.
abruptly; in a precipitous manner
One that precedes and indicates, suggests, or announces someone or something to come:  Colonial opposition to unfair taxation by the British was a precursor of the Revolution. 
An organism that lives by preying on other organisms.
One who precedes another in time, especially in holding an office or position.
A situation, especially an unpleasant, troublesome, or trying one, from which extrication is difficult. See Usage Note at dilemma.
To base or establish (a statement or action, for example):  I predicated my argument on the facts. 
The state of being predisposed; tendency, inclination, or susceptibility.
the status of being preeminent, dominant or ascendant
A preliminary statement or essay introducing a book that explains its scope, intention, or background and is usually written by the author.
Of, relating to, or giving advantage or preference:  preferential treatment. 
Detrimental; injurious.
Occurring, growing, or existing before the customary, correct, or assigned time; uncommonly or unexpectedly early:  a premature end. 
A prize or award.
Absorbed in thought; engrossed.
Superiority in weight, force, importance, or influence.
Required or necessary as a prior condition:  Competence is prerequisite to promotion. 
Tending to preserve or capable of preserving.
A heavy glazed paper or pasteboard used especially to cover the platen or cylinder of a printing press.
The level of respect at which one is regarded by others; standing.
The condition of being prevalent.
Existing or occurring before something else in time or order; prior:  children by a previous marriage. 
An animal hunted or caught for food; quarry.
A mammal of the order Primates, which includes the anthropoids and prosimians, characterized by refined development of the hands and feet, a shortened snout, and a large brain.
An elementary textbook for teaching children to read.
Not derived from something else; primary or basic.
First, highest, or foremost in importance, rank, worth, or degree; chief. See Synonyms at chief.
The process of legally establishing the validity of a will before a judicial authority.
An exploratory action, expedition, or device, especially one designed to investigate and obtain information on a remote or unknown region.
Posing a problem; difficult to solve:  a repair that proved more problematic than first expected. 
Revenue; gross revenue.
A supervisor especially of an examination or dormitory in a school.
Impressively great in size, force, or extent; enormous:  a prodigious storm. 
A person with exceptional talents or powers:  a math prodigy. 
To bring forth; yield:  a plant that produces pink flowers. 
Something produced by human or mechanical effort or by a natural process.
Having or marked by an advanced degree of competence, as in an art, vocation, profession, or branch of learning.
A side view of an object or structure, especially of the human head.
An advantageous gain or return; benefit.
The quality or state of being profitable.
Situated at, extending to, or coming from a great depth; deep.
Moving forward; advancing.
Prohibiting; forbidding:  took prohibitive measures. 
A plan or proposal; a scheme. See Synonyms at plan.
Simple past tense and past participle of project.
Of or having the characteristics of prokaryotes, especially bacteria.
To grow or multiply by rapidly producing new tissue, parts, cells, or offspring.
Projecting outward or upward from a line or surface; protuberant.
To make known (a decree, for example) by public declaration; announce officially. See Synonyms at announce.
Spoken; voiced.
Multiplication or increase, as by natural reproduction.
An innate inclination; a tendency. See Synonyms at predilection.
Something owned; a possession.
Presenting favorable circumstances; auspicious. See Synonyms at favorable.
A part considered in relation to the whole.
In a proportionate manner; with due proportion; proportionally.
To put forward for consideration; set forth. See Synonyms at propose.
Of, relating to, or suggestive of a proprietor or to proprietors as a group:  had proprietary rights; behaved with a proprietary air in his friend's house. 
Consisting or characteristic of prose.
Ordinary speech or writing, without metrical structure.
Something expected; a possibility.
A formal summary of a proposed venture or project.
To be fortunate or successful, especially in terms of one's finances; thrive.
Any of a group of potent hormonelike substances that are produced in various mammalian tissues, are derived from arachidonic acid, and mediate a wide range of physiological functions, such as control of blood pressure, contraction of smooth muscle, and modulation of inflammation.
Surgical removal of all or part of the prostate gland.
Serving as or relating to a prosthesis.
The main character in a drama or other literary work.
A person guided and protected by a more prominent person.
Any of a group of complex organic macromolecules that contain carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and usually sulfur and are composed of one or more chains of amino acids. Proteins are fundamental components of all living cells and include many substances, such as enzymes, hormones, and antibodies, that are necessary for the proper functioning of an organism. They are essential in the diet of animals for the growth and repair of tissue and can be obtained from foods such as meat, fish, eggs, milk, and legumes.
The forms of ceremony and etiquette observed by diplomats and heads of state.
A stable, positively charged subatomic particle in the baryon family having a mass 1,836 times that of the electron. See Table at subatomic particle.
The complex, semifluid, translucent substance that constitutes the living matter of plant and animal cells and manifests the essential life functions of a cell. Composed of proteins, fats, and other molecules suspended in water, it includes the nucleus and cytoplasm.
An original type, form, or instance serving as a basis or standard for later stages.
The act of supplying or fitting out.
Tending to provoke or stimulate.
To roam through stealthily, as in search of prey or plunder:  prowled the alleys of the city after dark. 
The state, quality, sense, or fact of being near or next; closeness: "Swift's major writings have a proximity and a relevance that is splendidly invigorating”  ( M.D. Aeschliman).  See Usage Note at redundancy.
Wise in handling practical matters; exercising good judgment or common sense.
The state or quality of being prudish.
To look or inquire closely, curiously, or impertinently:  was always prying into the affairs of others. 
One of the pseudomeric compounds.
The spirit or soul.
Of, or relating to, psychiatry.
Affecting the mind or mental processes. Used of a drug.
Of or relating to psychology:  psychological research. 
Of or relating to psychology:  psychological research. 
A person with an antisocial personality disorder, manifested in aggressive, perverted, criminal, or amoral behavior without empathy or remorse.
A severe mental disorder, with or without organic damage, characterized by derangement of personality and loss of contact with reality and causing deterioration of normal social functioning.
The treatment of mental and emotional disorders through the use of psychological techniques designed to encourage communication of conflicts and insight into problems, with the goal being relief of symptoms, changes in behavior leading to improved social and vocational functioning, and personality growth.
Any of various extinct flying reptiles of the order Pterosauria, including the pterodactyls, of the Jurassic and Cretaceous periods, characterized by wings consisting of a flap of skin supported by the very long fourth digit on each forelimb.
Information that concerns a person, group, event, or product and that is disseminated through various media to attract public notice.
A soft moist shapeless mass of matter.
Any of several celestial radio sources emitting short intense bursts of radio waves, x-rays, or visible electromagnetic radiation at regular intervals, generally believed to be rotating neutron stars.
The act of pulsating.
The use of standard marks and signs in writing and printing to separate words into sentences, clauses, and phrases in order to clarify meaning.
Inflicting or aiming to inflict punishment; punishing.
A young dog; a puppy.
The act or process of pupating.
To free from impurities; purify.
: a puritanical person
To follow in an effort to overtake or capture; chase:  a fox that was pursued by hounds. 
A doughlike cement made by mixing whiting and linseed oil, used to fill holes in woodwork and secure panes of glass.
A solid figure with a polygonal base and triangular faces that meet at a common point.
Mathematics   A circular arc of 90°; one fourth of the circumference of a circle.
Mathematics   A polygon having four sides.
Consisting of four parts or members.
Any of various Old World chickenlike birds of the genus Coturnix, especially C. coturnix, small in size and having mottled brown plumage and a short tail.
A member of the Society of Friends.
To describe by enumerating the characteristics or qualities of; characterize.
A state of uncertainty or perplexity. See Synonyms at predicament.
Plural of quantum.
A period of time during which a vehicle, person, or material suspected of carrying a contagious disease is detained at a port of entry under enforced isolation to prevent disease from entering a country.
A hunted animal; prey.
An extremely distant, and thus old, celestial object whose power output is several thousand times that of our entire galaxy.
Being quiet, still, or at rest; inactive. See Synonyms at latent.
Of, relating to, or having the nature of a quintessence; being the most typical: "Liszt was the quintessential romantic”  ( Musical Heritage Review). 
The number obtained by dividing one quantity by another. In 45 ÷ 3 = 15, 15 is the quotient.
A tumultuous crowd; a mob.
An acute, infectious, often fatal viral disease of most warm-blooded animals, especially wolves, cats, and dogs, that attacks the central nervous system and is transmitted by the bite of infected animals.
A carnivorous North American mammal (Procyon lotor) having grayish-brown fur, black masklike facial markings, and a black-ringed bushy tail.
A person who believes a particular race is superior to others.
Of, relating to, or arranged like rays or radii.
Emitting heat or light.
Arising from or going to a root or source; basic:  proposed a radical solution to the problem. 
Referring to the science of radiometry.
Mathematics   A line segment that joins the center of a circle with any point on its circumference.
A colorless, radioactive, inert gaseous element formed by the radioactive decay of radium. It is used as a radiation source in radiotherapy and to produce neutrons for research. Its most stable isotope is Rn 222 with a half-life of 3.82 days. Atomic number 86; melting point -71°C; boiling point -61.8°C; specific gravity (solid) 4. See Table at element.
Violent, explosive anger. See Synonyms at anger.
A style of jazz characterized by elaborately syncopated rhythm in the melody and a steadily accented accompaniment.
A surprise attack by a small armed force.
A course of violent, frenzied behavior or action.
One that owns or manages a ranch.
The release of property or a person in return for payment of a demanded price.
Moving, acting, or occurring with great speed. See Synonyms at fast1.
Infrequently occurring; uncommon:  a rare event; a plant that is rare in this region. 
A quantity measured with respect to another measured quantity:  a rate of speed of 60 miles an hour. 
A position assigned on a scale; a standing.
Relation in degree or number between two similar things.
A fixed portion, especially an amount of food allotted to persons in military service or to civilians in times of scarcity.
Having or exercising the ability to reason.
Fundamental reasons; the basis.
The quality or condition of being rational.
Extremely hungry; voracious.
reactionary
One that reacts to a stimulus.
A person or business that sells or leases out real estate, acting as an agent for the property owner.
A hind part.
To refute, especially by offering opposing evidence or arguments, as in a legal case.
To ask or order to return:  recalled all workers who had been laid off. 
The act of retaking or recovering.
To mold again:  recast a bell. 
The act of receiving:  We are in receipt of your letter. 
Physiology   A specialized cell or group of nerve endings that responds to sensory stimuli.
The act of withdrawing or going back.
Concerning each of two or more persons or things.
Concerning each of two or more persons or things.
The act or process of reclaiming.
To receive an equivalent for; make up for:  recoup a loss.  See Synonyms at recover.
To engage (persons) for military service.
Agent noun of recruit; one who recruits, particularly one employed to recruit others.
A four-sided plane figure with four right angles.
To happen, come up, or show up again or repeatedly.
To set right; remedy or rectify.
To bring down, as in extent, amount, or degree; diminish. See Synonyms at decrease.
Plural form of referendum.
The submission of a proposed public measure or actual statute to a direct popular vote.
Bent, turned, or thrown back; reflected.
To give back, especially money; return or repay:  refunded the purchase price. 
Governmental rule or control.
A military unit of ground troops consisting of at least two battalions, usually commanded by a colonel.
Tending to return or revert.
To restore to good health or useful life, as through therapy and education.
To bring forth again in another form without significant alteration:  rehashing old ideas. 
Exercise of sovereign power, as by a monarch.
To repay (money spent); refund.
To say or do again or repeatedly. See Synonyms at repeat.
To relight (a fire).
An act of passing something along from one person, group, or station to another.
Unyielding in severity or strictness; unrelenting:  relentless persecution. 
To retire from; give up or abandon.
Unwilling; disinclined:  reluctant to help. 
The amount of ionizing radiation required to produce the same biological effect as one rad of high-penetration x-rays.
Something left over after other parts have been taken away.
Something, such as medicine or therapy, that relieves pain, cures disease, or corrects a disorder.
The act or process of recollecting past experiences or events.
A rebirth or revival.
The act of rendering.
To revoke or rescind, especially by an official or formal act.
The stock of songs, plays, operas, readings, or other pieces that a player or company is prepared to perform.
Abundantly supplied; abounding:  a stream replete with trout; an apartment replete with Empire furniture. 
To duplicate, copy, reproduce, or repeat.
A place where things may be put for safekeeping.
To express disapproval of, criticism of, or disappointment in (someone). See Synonyms at admonish.
Any of various cold-blooded, usually egg-laying vertebrates of the class Reptilia, such as a snake, lizard, crocodile, turtle, or dinosaur, having an external covering of scales or horny plates and breathing by means of lungs.
Of or relating to reptiles.
To reject the validity or authority of: "Chaucer . . . not only came to doubt the worth of his extraordinary body of work, but repudiated it”  ( Joyce Carol Oates). 
The act of repudiating or the state of being repudiated.
To make void; repeal or annul.
To feel indignantly aggrieved at.
The act of reserving; a keeping back or withholding.
To submit (oneself) passively; accept as inevitable:  I resigned myself to a long wait in line. 
To breathe in and out; inhale and exhale.
Answering or replying; responding.
The act of restoring to the rightful owner something that has been taken away, lost, or surrendered. See Synonyms at reparation.
A continuing after interruption; a renewal.
The act of resuscitating.
The sale of goods or commodities in small quantities directly to consumers.
Violent response to an act of harm or perceived injustice.
To cause to move or proceed slowly; delay or impede.
The act of retaining.
Having the quality, power, or capacity of retaining.
The income of a government from all sources appropriated for the payment of the public expenses.
To regard with awe, deference, and devotion.
To prepare a newly edited version of (a text).
Of or pertaining to revisionism
To impart new life or vigor to:  plans to revitalize inner-city neighborhoods; tried to revitalize a flagging economy. 
The act or an instance of reviving.
Alternative spelling of revocable.
The art or study of using language effectively and persuasively.
Of or resembling rheumatism.
Any of several large, thick-skinned, herbivorous mammals of the family Rhinocerotidae, of Africa and Asia, having one or two upright horns on the snout.
Any of a group of picornaviruses that are causative agents of many disorders of the respiratory tract, such as the common cold.
An equilateral parallelogram.
rhythmic
Anatomy   One of a series of long curved bones occurring in 12 pairs in humans and extending from the spine to or toward the sternum.
A minute round particle composed of RNA and protein that is found in the cytoplasm of living cells and serves as the site of assembly for polypeptides encoded by messenger RNA.
Characterized by or acting with rigor:  a rigorous program to restore physical fitness. 
To wash lightly with water.
One who attempts to equal or surpass another, or who pursues the same object as another; a competitor.
A North American songbird (Turdus migratorius) having a rust-red breast and gray and black upper plumage. Also called robin redbreast.
Full of health and strength; vigorous.
Any of various mammals of the order Rodentia, such as a mouse, rat, squirrel, or beaver, characterized by large incisors adapted for gnawing or nibbling.
hewn roughly without a neat finish
A loose mass of angular fragments of rock or masonry crumbled by natural or human forces.
Of or relating to basic facts or principles; elementary.
Sports   One who competes in a race.
The process or instance of breaking open or bursting.
Destruction of property or obstruction of normal operations, as by civilians or enemy agents in time of war.
To dedicate and sanctify a structure such as a church or religious school for a sacred purpose.
Offered or suitable for sale; marketable.
The quality or condition of being salient.
The watery mixture of secretions from the salivary and oral mucous glands that lubricates chewed food, moistens the oral walls, and contains ptyalin.
The Japanese feudal military aristocracy.
Authoritative permission or approval that makes a course of action valid. See Synonyms at permission.
A sacred place, such as a church, temple, or mosque.
Two or more slices of bread with a filling such as meat or cheese placed between them.
See sanatorium.
Of or relating to health or the protection of health.
The watery fluid that circulates through a plant, carrying food and other substances to the various tissues.
To imbue or impregnate thoroughly: "The recollection was saturated with sunshine”  ( Vladimir Nabokov).  See Synonyms at charge.
One of the many small platelike dermal or epidermal structures that characteristically form the external covering of fishes, reptiles, and certain mammals.
To examine closely.
One that is made to bear the blame of others.
Insufficiency of amount or supply; shortage:  a scarcity of food that was caused by drought. 
To cause to separate and go in different directions.
An outline of the plot of a dramatic or literary work.
Any of various generally tropical diseases caused by infestation with schistosomes, widespread in rural areas of Africa, Asia, and Latin America through use of contaminated water, and characterized by infection and gradual destruction of the tissues of the kidneys, liver, and other organs. Also called bilharziasis, snail fever.
Any of a group of psychotic disorders usually characterized by withdrawal from reality, illogical patterns of thinking, delusions, and hallucinations, and accompanied in varying degrees by other emotional, behavioral, or intellectual disturbances. Schizophrenia is associated with dopamine imbalances in the brain and may have an underlying genetic cause.
An institution for the instruction of children or people under college age.
To throw off sparks; flash.
To burn superficially so as to discolor or damage the texture of. See Synonyms at burn1.
To clean, polish, or wash by scrubbing vigorously:  scour a dirty oven. 
To move or climb hurriedly, especially on the hands and knees.
A small piece or bit; a fragment.
A movable device, especially a framed construction such as a room divider or a decorative panel, designed to divide, conceal, or protect.
Conscientious and exact; painstaking. See Synonyms at meticulous.
To examine or observe with great care; inspect critically.
Given to the use of vulgar, coarse, or abusive language; foul-mouthed.
To go with light running steps; scamper.
Alternative spelling of séance.
The process of secreting a substance, especially one that is not a waste, from the blood or cells:  secretion of hormones; secretion of milk by the mammary glands. 
Worldly rather than spiritual.
Free from danger or attack:  a secure fortress. 
A closed automobile having two or four doors and a front and rear seat.
Characterized by or requiring much sitting:  a sedentary job. 
Material that settles to the bottom of a liquid; lees.
Tending to seduce; alluring: "his sad and fastidious but ever seductive Irish voice”  ( John Fowles). 
Any of the parts into which something can be divided:  segments of the community; a segment of a television program. 
The act or process of segregating or the condition of being segregated.
Of, subject to, or caused by an earthquake or earth vibration.
A person who is skilled at, professes, or practices seismology.
A natural effervescent spring water of high mineral content.
Characterized by relatively low annual rainfall of 25 to 50 centimeters (10 to 20 inches) and having scrubby vegetation with short, coarse grasses; not completely arid.
Any of various solid crystalline substances, such as germanium or silicon, having electrical conductivity greater than insulators but less than good conductors, and used especially as a base material for computer chips and other electronic devices.
Of, relating to, containing, or conveying semen or seed.
A small group of advanced students in a college or graduate school engaged in original research or intensive study under the guidance of a professor who meets regularly with them to discuss their reports and findings.
Of or relating to semiotics.
The state of being older than another or others or higher in rank than another or others.
Of or relating to sensation.
Perceptible by the senses or by the mind.
The quality or state of being sensual or lascivious.
Having sense perception; conscious: "The living knew themselves just sentient puppets on God's stage”  ( T.E. Lawrence). 
A thought, view, or attitude, especially one based mainly on emotion instead of reason:  An anti-American sentiment swept through the country.  See Synonyms at feeling, opinion.
One that keeps guard; a sentry.
The capital and largest city of South Korea, in the northwest part of the country east of Inchon. Founded in the 14th century, it became the country's capital in 1948 and was twice occupied by Communist forces during the Korean War. Population: 9,820,000.
Something that follows; a continuation.
Forming or characterized by a sequence, as of units or musical notes.
To cause to withdraw into seclusion.
To deliver a sermon to (someone).
An organic compound, C10H12N2O, formed from tryptophan and found in animal and human tissue, especially the brain, blood serum, and gastric mucous membranes, and active as a neurotransmitter and in vasoconstriction, stimulation of the smooth muscles, and regulation of cyclic body processes.
A meeting of a legislative or judicial body for the purpose of transacting business.
To cause to break or burst suddenly into pieces, as with a violent blow.
To remove the beard or other body hair from, with a razor or shaver:  The barber lathered his face and then shaved him. 
A broad piece of armor made of rigid material and strapped to the arm or carried in the hand for protection against hurled or thrusted weapons.
To exchange (one thing) for another of the same class:  shifted assignments among the students. 
The action of stealing goods from a shop; the action of the verb shoplift.
A failure to attain a specified amount or level; a shortage.
Characterized by keen awareness, sharp intelligence, and often a sense of the practical.
High-pitched and piercing in tone or sound:  the shrill wail of a siren. 
A device used in weaving to carry the woof thread back and forth between the warp threads.
An implement having a semicircular blade attached to a short handle, used for cutting grain or tall grass.
Mathematics   A line bounding a plane figure.
To step aside:  sidestepped to make way for the runner. 
The surrounding and blockading of a city, town, or fortress by an army attempting to capture it.
Any of a group of semi-inorganic polymers based on the structural unit R2SiO, where R is an organic group, characterized by wide-range thermal stability, high lubricity, extreme water repellence, and physiological inertness and used in adhesives, lubricants, protective coatings, paints, electrical insulation, synthetic rubber, and prosthetic replacements for body parts.
Inflammation of the sinuses or a sinus, especially in the nasal region.
A doubting or questioning attitude or state of mind; dubiety. See Synonyms at uncertainty.
Plural form of skeptic.
A hasty or undetailed drawing or painting often made as a preliminary study.
Resembling a sketch; giving only major points or parts.
The bony or cartilaginous framework of the head of vertebrates, made up of the bones of the braincase and face; cranium.
Law   Oral communication of false statements injurious to a person's reputation.
A thin broad piece cut from a larger object:  ate a slice of cheese; examined a slice of the diseased lung. 
To move smoothly, easily, and quietly:  slipped into bed. 
The act or process of slowing down; a slackening of pace:  a production slowdown. 
An acute, highly infectious, often fatal disease caused by a poxvirus and characterized by high fever and aches with subsequent widespread eruption of pimples that blister, produce pus, and form pockmarks. Also called variola.
To spread or daub with a sticky, greasy, or dirty substance.
To inflict a heavy blow on, with or as if with the hand, a tool, or a weapon.
Fog that has become mixed and polluted with smoke.
Any of several plants of the genus Antirrhinum, especially the widely cultivated Mediterranean herb A. majus, having showy racemes of two-lipped, variously colored flowers.
A skilled military shooter detailed to spot and pick off enemy soldiers from a concealed place.
To rise, fly, or glide high and with little apparent effort.
A soft, light, extremely malleable silver-white metallic element that reacts explosively with water, is naturally abundant in combined forms, especially in common salt, and is used in the production of a wide variety of industrially important compounds. Atomic number 11; atomic weight 22.99; melting point 97.8°C; boiling point 892°C; specific gravity 0.971; valence 1. See Table at element.
To reside temporarily. See Synonyms at stay1.
To seek to obtain by persuasion, entreaty, or formal application:  a candidate who solicited votes among the factory workers. 
One who performs a solo.
The state of having enough funds or liquid assets to pay all of one's debts; the state of being solvent.
Of, relating to, or affecting the body, especially as distinguished from a body part, the mind, or the environment; corporeal or physical. See Synonyms at bodily.
Having acquired worldly knowledge or refinement; lacking natural simplicity or naiveté.
A second-year student in a U.S. college.
The highest singing voice of a woman or young boy.
The extent or measure of space between two points or extremities, as of a bridge or roof; the breadth.
A native or inhabitant of Spain.
An incandescent particle, especially:
A sudden flood, rush, or outpouring: "It issues a spate of words from the loudspeakers and the politicians”  ( Virginia Woolf). 
Of, relating to, involving, or having the nature of space.
Explicitly set forth; definite. See Synonyms at explicit.
An individual, item, or part representative of a class, genus, or whole. See Synonyms at example.
A ghostly apparition; a phantom.
Physics   The distribution of a characteristic of a physical system or phenomenon, especially:
To meditate on a subject; reflect.
To name or write in order the letters constituting (a word or part of a word).
To name or write in order the letters constituting (a word or part of a word).
To send or force out in or as if in a stream; eject forcefully or in large amounts:  a volcano that spewed molten lava; spewed invective at his opponent. 
Mathematics   A three-dimensional surface, all points of which are equidistant from a fixed point.
A miniature sphere; a globule.
The act or an instance of spilling over.
The spinal column of a vertebrate.
Filled with, prompted by, or showing spite; malicious.
A large, highly vascular lymphoid organ, lying in the human body to the left of the stomach below the diaphragm, serving to store blood, disintegrate old blood cells, filter foreign substances from the blood, and produce lymphocytes.
A sharp, slender piece, as of wood, bone, glass, or metal, split or broken off from a main body.
To impair the value or quality of.
One who assumes responsibility for another person or a group during a period of instruction, apprenticeship, or probation.
Water or other liquid moving in a mass of dispersed droplets, as from a wave.
Any of various coniferous evergreen trees of the genus Picea, having needlelike foliage, drooping cones, and soft wood often used for paper pulp.
A short spike or spiked wheel that attaches to the heel of a rider's boot and is used to urge a horse forward.
A plane figure having four equal sides.
A plane figure having four equal sides.
Any of various tendril-bearing plants of the genus Cucurbita, having fleshy edible fruit with a leathery rind and unisexual flowers.
A raised and level floor or platform.
Causing great astonishment, amazement, or dismay; overwhelming:  a staggering achievement; a staggering defeat. 
Not moving or flowing; motionless.
Having lost freshness, effervescence, or palatability:  stale bread; stale air. 
The attitude or position of a standing person or animal, especially the position assumed by an athlete preparatory to action. See Synonyms at posture.
A position from which things are considered or judged; a point of view.
A principal raw material or commodity grown or produced in a region.
A naturally abundant nutrient carbohydrate, (C6H10O5)n, found chiefly in the seeds, fruits, tubers, roots, and stem pith of plants, notably in corn, potatoes, wheat, and rice, and varying widely in appearance according to source but commonly prepared as a white amorphous tasteless powder.
Bare or blunt: "His language has become increasingly stark, to the point of sounding strident”  ( Robert Pear). 
Present participle of startle.
Not moving.
A law enacted by a legislature.
Of or relating to a statute.
A narrow strip of wood forming part of the sides of a barrel, tub, or similar structure.
Having a sharp inclination; precipitous.
The act or practice of steering.
Of, relating to, or consisting of stars.
A strong, foul odor; a stink.
A vast semiarid grass-covered plain, as found in southeast Europe, Siberia, and central North America.
A conventional, formulaic, and oversimplified conception, opinion, or image.
Something causing or regarded as causing a response.
A southern African deciduous tree (Ocotea bullata) having wood with an unpleasant odor.
A fixed and regular payment, such as a salary for services rendered or an allowance.
To lay down as a condition of an agreement; require by contract.
A single complete movement of a threaded needle in sewing or surgical suturing.
A supply accumulated for future use; a store.
A supply stored for future use, usually carefully accrued and maintained.
The side of a store or shop facing a street.
To pull, draw, or stretch tight:  strained the sheets over the bed. 
To pull, draw, or stretch tight:  strained the sheets over the bed. 
A plural of stratum.
Of or relating to strategy.
The science and art of using all the forces of a nation to execute approved plans as effectively as possible during peace or war.
stratigraphic
The region of the atmosphere above the troposphere and below the mesosphere.
Requiring great effort, energy, or exertion:  a strenuous task. 
An antibiotic, C21H39O12N7, produced by the actinomycete Streptomyces griseus, used to treat tuberculosis and other bacterial infections.
To walk with long steps, especially in a hasty or vigorous way.
Heated, often violent dissension; bitter conflict. See Synonyms at discord.
Imposing rigorous standards of performance; severe:  stringent safety measures. 
To exert much effort or energy; endeavor.
The act or an instance of striking, as with the hand, a weapon, or a tool; a blow or impact.
To walk with pompous bearing; swagger.
To render useless or ineffectual; cripple.
To check the growth or development of.
Having or showing rugged physical strength.
Not wholly conscious; partially or imperfectly conscious:  subconscious perceptions. 
A contract that assigns some of the obligations of a prior contract to another party.
To conquer and subjugate; vanquish. See Synonyms at defeat.
Being in a position or in circumstances that place one under the power or authority of another or others:  subject to the law. 
Belonging to a lower or inferior class or rank; secondary.
a person who subscribes to a publication or a service
A purchase made by signed order, as for a periodical for a specified period of time or for a series of performances.
Following in time or order; succeeding.
Serving to assist or supplement; auxiliary.
To assist or support with a subsidy.
Of, relating to, or having substance; material.
To support with proof or evidence; verify:  substantiate an accusation.  See Synonyms at confirm.
Substantial; considerable.
The material or substance on which an enzyme acts.
A deceptive stratagem or device: "the paltry subterfuge of an anonymous signature”  ( Robert Smith Surtees). 
To take away; deduct.
To submit to an overpowering force or yield to an overwhelming desire; give up or give in. See Synonyms at yield.
Law   To petition (a court) for redress of grievances or recovery of a right.
To meet present needs or requirements; be sufficient:  These rations will suffice until next week. 
Alternative spelling of sugar cane.
A pale yellow nonmetallic element occurring widely in nature in several free and combined allotropic forms. It is used in black gunpowder, rubber vulcanization, the manufacture of insecticides and pharmaceuticals, and in the preparation of sulfur compounds such as hydrogen sulfide and sulfuric acid. Atomic number 16; atomic weight 32.066; melting point (rhombic) 112.8°C, (monoclinic) 119.0°C; boiling point 444.6°C; specific gravity (rhombic) 2.07, (monoclinic) 1.957; valence 2, 4, 6. See Table at element.
Alternative spelling of sulfate.
A ruler of a Muslim country, especially of the former Ottoman Empire.
Mathematics   An amount obtained as a result of adding numbers.
Of unusually high quality; excellent:  a superb wine; superb skill. 
Of, affecting, or being on or near the surface:  a superficial wound. 
A rare celestial phenomenon involving the explosion of most of the material in a star, resulting in an extremely bright, short-lived object that emits vast amounts of energy.
To take the place of; replace.
To take the place of; replace.
An irrational belief that an object, action, or circumstance not logically related to a course of events influences its outcome.
Something added to complete a thing, make up for a deficiency, or extend or strengthen the whole.
One who supplicates; a suppliant.
A substance that suppresses.
The outer or the topmost boundary of an object.
To be beyond the limit, powers, or capacity of; transcend:  misery that surpasses comprehension. 
Being more than or in excess of what is needed or required:  surplus grain.  See Synonyms at superfluous.
The quality or condition of being susceptible.
Easily influenced or affected: "She suddenly was too susceptible to her past”  ( Jimmy Breslin). 
To keep in existence; maintain.
To increase in size or volume as a result of internal pressure; expand.
A slender flexible rod, stick, or twig, especially one used for whipping.
A unit of spoken language consisting of a single uninterrupted sound formed by a vowel, diphthong, or syllabic consonant alone, or by any of these sounds preceded, followed, or surrounded by one or more consonants.
Of or exhibiting symmetry.
A characteristic sign or indication of the existence of something else: "The affair is a symptom of a global marital disturbance; it is not the disturbance itself”  ( Maggie Scarf).  See Synonyms at sign.
An association of people or firms authorized to undertake a duty or transact specific business.
A group of symptoms that collectively indicate or characterize a disease, psychological disorder, or other abnormal condition.
Having the same or a similar meaning:  synonymous words. 
To combine so as to form a new, complex product: "His works synthesize photography, painting and linguistic devices”  ( Paul Taylor). 
See ligase.
A slab or plaque, as of stone or ivory, with a surface that is intended for or bears an inscription.
A ban or an inhibition resulting from social custom or emotional aversion.
A short, light nail with a sharp point and a flat head.
An expedient for achieving a goal; a maneuver.
Of, relating to, or using tactics.
Perceptible to the sense of touch; tangible.
A strip of leather, paper, metal, or plastic attached to something or hung from a wearer's neck to identify, classify, or label:  sale tags on all coats and dresses. 
The act or an instance of assuming control or management of or responsibility for something, especially the seizure of power, as in a nation, political organization, or corporation.
A reckoning or score.
A tropical Asian evergreen tree (Tamarindus indica) having pinnately compound leaves, pale yellow flowers, and long pods containing small seeds embedded in an edible pulp.
To interfere in a harmful manner:  tried to tamper with the decedent's will; tampering with the timing mechanism of the safe. 
Making contact at a single point or along a line; touching but not intersecting.
Discernible by the touch; palpable:  a tangible roughness of the skin. 
Having symptoms that develop slowly or appear long after inception. Used of a disease.
A list or system of duties imposed by a government on imported or exported goods.
Any of numerous textile patterns consisting of stripes of varying widths and colors crossed at right angles against a solid background, each forming a distinctive design worn by the members of a Scottish clan.
To annoy or pester; vex.
An adherent or a proponent of technocracy.
Tiresome by reason of length, slowness, or dullness; boring. See Synonyms at boring.
Any of numerous generally small, rounded, dark brown to green glassy objects that are composed of silicate glass and are thought to have been formed by the impact of a meteorite with the earth's surface.
See earthquake.
Moderation and self-restraint, as in behavior or expression.
Music   The speed at which music is or ought to be played, often indicated on written compositions by a descriptive or metronomic direction to the performer.
An opinion, doctrine, or principle held as being true by a person or especially by an organization. See Synonyms at doctrine.
A continuous, unwavering course. See Synonyms at tendency.
Not fully worked out, concluded, or agreed on; provisional:  tentative plans. 
To bring to an end or halt: "His action terminated the most hopeful period of reform in Prussian history”  ( Gordon A. Craig). 
The vocabulary of technical terms used in a particular field, subject, science, or art; nomenclature.
An unglazed hard-baked clay pottery
Of or relating to the earth or its inhabitants.
An area of land; a region.
The unlawful use or threatened use of force or violence by a person or an organized group against people or property with the intention of intimidating or coercing societies or governments, often for ideological or political reasons.
Brief and to the point; effectively concise:  a terse one-word answer. 
A declaration by a witness under oath, as that given before a court or deliberative body.
From a specified time onward; from then on.
A piece of wood or stone placed beneath a door; a doorsill.
To make steady progress; prosper.
A valve that regulates the flow of a fluid, such as the valve in an internal-combustion engine that controls the amount of vaporized fuel entering the cylinders.
To prevent the occurrence, realization, or attainment of:  They thwarted her plans. 
The thyroid gland.
To touch (the body) lightly so as to cause laughter or twitching movements.
To cause to slope, as by raising one end; incline:  tilt a soup bowl; tilt a chair backward. 
Multiplied by:  Five times two is ten. 
To apply a trace of color to; tint.
A traveling mender of metal household utensils.
A fine, very thin fabric, such as gauze.
Of or relating to the Titans.
One who toddles, especially a young child learning to walk.
Music   A system or an arrangement of seven tones built on a tonic key.
Surgical removal of tonsils or a tonsil.
variant of topographic
To push or throw over; overturn or overthrow. See Synonyms at overthrow.
The upper part of the soil.
Plural form of tortilla.
Infliction of severe physical pain as a means of punishment or coercion.
An amount obtained by addition; a sum.
Of, relating to, being, or imposing a form of government in which the political authority exercises absolute and centralized control over all aspects of life, the individual is subordinated to the state, and opposing political and cultural expression is suppressed: "A totalitarian regime crushes all autonomous institutions in its drive to seize the human soul”  ( Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr.) 
To solicit customers, votes, or patronage, especially in a brazen way.
Of, relating to, or caused by a toxin or other poison:  a toxic condition; toxic hepatitis. 
A poisonous substance, especially a protein, that is produced by living cells or organisms and is capable of causing disease when introduced into the body tissues but is often also capable of inducing neutralizing antibodies or antitoxins.
A distinguishing feature, as of a person's character. See Synonyms at quality.
Having the character of a traitor; disloyal.
The path of a projectile or other moving body through space.
To make a full written or typewritten copy of (dictated material, for example).
To change markedly the appearance or form of: "A thick, fibrous fog had transformed the trees into ghosts and the streetlights into soft, haloed moons”  ( David Michael Kaplan). 
A small electronic device containing a semiconductor and having at least three electrical contacts, used in a circuit as an amplifier, detector, or switch.
To send from one person, thing, or place to another; convey. See Synonyms at convey, send1.
One that transmits:  a transmitter of disease. 
A quadrilateral having no parallel sides.
A serious injury or shock to the body, as from violence or an accident.
To travel or pass across, over, or through.
A place in which treasure is kept.
A deep furrow or ditch.
Forceful, effective, and vigorous:  a trenchant argument.  See Synonyms at incisive.
The plane figure formed by connecting three points not in a straight line by straight line segments; a three-sided polygon.
Of, relating to, or characteristic of a tribe.
Division into three parts or elements.
To make neat or tidy by clipping, smoothing, or pruning:  trimmed his moustache. 
Consisting of three parts or members.
Lacking power to evoke interest through overuse or repetition; hackneyed.
Of little significance or value.
An essential amino acid, C11H12N2O2, formed from proteins during digestion by the action of proteolytic enzymes. It is necessary for normal growth and development and is the precursor of several substances, including serotonin and niacin.
An infectious disease of humans and animals caused by the tubercle bacillus and characterized by the formation of tubercles on the lungs and other tissues of the body, often developing long after the initial infection.
Of or relating to a tube.
To perform acrobatic feats such as somersaults, rolls, or twists.
Any of various machines in which the kinetic energy of a moving fluid is converted to mechanical power by the impulse or reaction of the fluid with a series of buckets, paddles, or blades arrayed about the circumference of a wheel or cylinder.
Violently agitated or disturbed; tumultuous:  turbulent rapids. 
A state of extreme confusion or agitation; commotion or tumult:  a country in turmoil over labor strikes. 
To cause to move around an axis or center; cause to rotate or revolve.
The act of turning over; an upset or overthrow.
The study or systematic classification of types that have characteristics or traits in common.
Of or relating to a tyrant or tyranny:  a tyrannical government. 
A white crystalline amino acid, C9H11NO3, that is obtained from the hydrolysis of proteins such as casein and is a precursor of epinephrine, thyroxine, and melanin.
A lesion of the skin or a mucous membrane such as the one lining the stomach or duodenum that is accompanied by formation of pus and necrosis of surrounding tissue, usually resulting from inflammation or ischemia.
Being last in a series, process, or progression: "As the ultimate arbiter of the Constitution, the Supreme Court occupies a central place in our scheme of government”  ( Richard A. Epstein). 
Unrestrained; uncontrolled:  unbridled anger. 
To diminish or destroy the province or effectiveness of; undermine: "This celebration of opulence and wealth and power undercuts the character of the Statue of Liberty”  ( Jesse Jackson).  "The partnership between the United States and Western Europe is undercut by diverging economic interests”  ( Scott Sullivan). 
To pass through; experience:  a house that is undergoing renovations. 
Lying under or beneath something:  underlying strata. 
To weaken by wearing away a base or foundation:  Water has undermined the stone foundations. 
To support from below, as with props, girders, or masonry.
Having or consisting of a single legislative chamber.
The act of unifying.
Music   Identity of pitch; the interval of a perfect prime.
The quality, fact, or condition of being universal.
Without parallel, equal, or match; unequaled.
Having no previous example:  unprecedented economic growth. 
Being such that defense or maintenance is impossible:  an untenable position. 
Alternative spelling of inviable.
Having no justification; groundless:  unwarranted interference.  See Synonyms at baseless.
Difficult to carry or manage because of size, shape, weight, or complexity:  an unwieldy parcel; an unwieldy bureaucracy. 
Not knowing; unaware:  an unwitting subject in an experiment. 
Plural form of updraft.
To raise to a higher grade or standard:  upgrading their military defenses. 
The process of being heaved upward.
The northerly section of a state in the United States.
To surge up.
To turn up or over:  upturn the soil. 
A heavy silvery-white metallic element, radioactive and toxic, easily oxidized, and having 14 known isotopes of which U 238 is the most abundant in nature. The element occurs in several minerals, including uraninite and carnotite, from which it is extracted and processed for use in research, nuclear fuels, and nuclear weapons. Atomic number 92; atomic weight 238.03; melting point 1,132°C; boiling point 3,818°C; specific gravity 18.95; valence 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. See Table at element.
A playful or mischievous youngster; a scamp.
To seize and hold (the power or rights of another, for example) by force or without legal authority. See Synonyms at appropriate.
To put to use, especially to find a profitable or practical use for. See Synonyms at use.
The condition of being vacant or unoccupied.
A preparation of a weakened or killed pathogen, such as a bacterium or virus, or of a portion of the pathogen's structure that upon administration stimulates antibody production or cellular immunity against the pathogen but is incapable of causing severe infection.
Absence of matter.
Not clearly expressed; inexplicit.
An ornamental drapery hung across a top edge, as of a bed, table, or canopy.
The state of being valid, authentic or genuine.
The quality or condition of being vain.
Likely to change or vary; subject to variation; changeable.
Abnormally swollen or knotted:  varicose veins. 
Of diverse kinds:  for various reasons. 
Of, characterized by, or containing vessels that carry or circulate fluids, such as blood, lymph, or sap, through the body of an animal or plant.
Mathematics   A quantity, such as velocity, completely specified by a magnitude and a direction.
One who practices vegetarianism.
The act or process of vegetating.
Characterized by forcefulness of expression or intensity of emotion or conviction; fervid:  a vehement denial.  See Synonyms at intense.
Rapidity or speed of motion; swiftness.
A soft fabric, such as silk, rayon, or nylon, having a smooth, dense pile and a plain underside.
One that sells or vends:  a street vendor; a vendor of software products on the Web. 
A thin surface layer, as of finely grained wood, glued to a base of inferior material.
Commanding respect by virtue of age, dignity, character, or position.
Infliction of punishment in return for a wrong committed; retribution.
A poisonous secretion of an animal, such as a snake, spider, or scorpion, usually transmitted by a bite or sting.
A means of escape or release from confinement; an outlet:  give vent to one's anger. 
An undertaking that is dangerous, daring, or of uncertain outcome.
Law   The finding of a jury in a trial.
The extreme edge or margin; a border. See Synonyms at border.
The state or property of being capable of being verified; confirmability.
The quality of appearing to be true or real. See Synonyms at truth.
The standard native language of a country or locality.
The property of being versatile or having many different abilities; flexibility.
A description or account from one point of view, especially as opposed to another:  Your version of the accident differs from mine. 
A hollow utensil, such as a cup, vase, or pitcher, used as a container, especially for liquids.
A visible trace, evidence, or sign of something that once existed but exists or appears no more.
Capable of living, developing, or germinating under favorable conditions.
The state of being near in space or relationship; proximity:  two restaurants in close vicinity. 
One who is harmed or killed by another:  a victim of a mugging. 
One who defeats an adversary; the winner in a fight, battle, contest, or struggle.
Baseness of mind or character.
A wine merchant.
The univalent chemical radical CH2CH, derived from ethylene.
A stringed instrument of the violin family, slightly larger than a violin, tuned a fifth lower, and having a deeper, more sonorous tone.
A person who has not experienced sexual intercourse.
Characterized by vision or foresight.
Of or relating to the sense of sight:  a visual organ; visual receptors on the retina. 
Of, similar to, or derived from a vitriol.
The quality or state of being vivid.
Of or relating to the voice:  the vertebrate vocal organs; a vocal defect. 
Chemistry   Evaporating readily at normal temperatures and pressures.
Having great volume, fullness, size, or number:  a voluminous trunk; a voluminous cloud. 
Payment for labor or services to a worker, especially remuneration on an hourly, daily, or weekly basis or by the piece.
One who is engaged in or experienced in battle.
The side or edge of a road, way, path, or highway.
Having the shape of a wedge; cuneiform.
To join (metals) by applying heat, sometimes with pressure and sometimes with an intermediate or filler metal having a high melting point.
The state of being healthy, happy, or prosperous; welfare.
A sudden or capricious idea; a fancy.
Any of various spinning toys.
The sale of goods in large quantities, as for resale by a retailer.
The state, quality, or fact of being wide.
An artificial covering of human or synthetic hair worn on the head for personal adornment, as part of a costume, or to conceal baldness.
Whether desired or not:  After her boss fell sick, she willy-nilly found herself directing the project. 
A framed pane of usually curved glass or other transparent shielding located in front of the occupants of a vehicle to protect them from the wind.
The linear distance between the extremities of an airfoil.
To dry up or shrivel from or as if from loss of moisture.
On the outside:  a sturdy structure within and without. 
To oppose with force or resolution.
Possessing or demonstrating wit in speech or writing; very clever and humorous.
See uterus.
A common burrowing rodent (Marmota monax) of northern and eastern North America, having a short-legged, heavy-set body and grizzled brownish fur. Also called groundhog; also called regionally whistle pig.
To inflict (vengeance or punishment) upon a person.
A ring or circlet of flowers, boughs, or leaves worn on the head, placed on a memorial, or hung as a decoration.
A band, as on a long sleeve or a wristwatch, that encircles the wrist.
A cancellation of an item in account books.
A fear of strangers or foreigners.
Any of various unicellular fungi of the genus Saccharomyces, especially S. cerevisiae, reproducing by budding and from ascospores and capable of fermenting carbohydrates.
To give forth by or as if by a natural process, especially by cultivation:  a field that yields many bushels of corn. 
A brief high-pitched humming or buzzing sound, such as that made by a swiftly passing object or a taut vibrating string.
Present participle of zone.
To make a continuous low-pitched buzzing or humming sound.
